# Cache

**Day 24 | Topic 24/59** | [Docs](https://laravel.com/docs/13.x/cache) | Next: [Collections](https://laravel.com/docs/13.x/digging-deeper/collections)

---

## Key Points

### Getting Started

- Installation Configuration Agentic Development Directory Structure Frontend Starter Kits Deployment

### The Basics

- Routing Middleware CSRF Protection Controllers Requests Responses Views Blade Templates Asset Bundling URL Generation Session Validation Error Handling Logging

### Digging Deeper

- Artisan Console Broadcasting Cache Collections Concurrency Context Contracts Events File Storage Helpers HTTP Client Images Localization Mail Notifications Package Development Processes Queues Rate Limiting Search Strings Task Scheduling

### Security

- Authentication Authorization Email Verification Encryption Hashing Password Reset

### Eloquent ORM

- Getting Started Relationships Collections Mutators / Casts API Resources Serialization Factories

### Packages

- Cashier (Stripe) Cashier (Paddle) Dusk Envoy Fortify Folio Homestead Horizon Mix Octane Passport Pennant Pint Precognition Prompts Pulse Reverb Sail Sanctum Scout Socialite Telescope Valet

### Changelog

- Cache 

 Introduction 
 Configuration 

 Driver Prerequisites 

 Cache Usage 

 Obtaining a Cache Instance 
 Retrieving Items From the Cache 
 Storing Items in the Cache 
 Extending Item Lifetime 
 Removing Items From the Cache 
 Cache Memoization 
 The Cache Helper 

 Cache Tags 
 Atomic Locks 

 Managing Locks 
 Managing Locks Across Processes 
 Refreshing Locks 
 Concurrency Limiting 

 Cache Failover 
 Adding Custom Cache Drivers 

 Writing the Driver 
 Registering the Driver 

 Events

### Configuration

- Your application's cache configuration file is located at config/cache.php .
- In this file, you may specify which cache store you would like to be used by default throughout your application.
- Laravel supports popular caching backends like Memcached , Redis , DynamoDB , relational databases, and filesystem disks out of the box.

### Driver Prerequisites

- Database 
 When using the database cache driver, you will need a database table to contain the cache data.
- Typically, this is included in Laravel's default 0001_01_01_000001_create_cache_table.php database migration ; however, if your application does not contain this migration, you may use the make:cache-table Artisan command to create it: 

 1 php artisan make:cache-table 2   3 php artisan migrate 
php artisan make:cache-table

php artisan migrate 

 Memcached 
 Using the Memcached driver requires the Memcached PECL package to be installed.
- You may list all of your Memcached servers in the config/cache.php configuration file.

### Obtaining a Cache Instance

- To obtain a cache store instance, you may use the Cache facade, which is what we will use throughout this documentation.
- The Cache facade provides convenient, terse access to the underlying implementations of the Laravel cache contracts: 

 1 <?php 2   3 namespace App\Http\Controllers; 4   5 use Illuminate\Support\Facades\ Cache ; 6   7 class UserController extends Controller 8 { 9 /** 10 * Show a list of all users of the application.
- 11 */ 12 public function index () : array 13 { 14 $value = Cache :: get ( ' key ' ); 15   16 return [ 17 // ...

### Retrieving Items From the Cache

- The Cache facade's get method is used to retrieve items from the cache.
- If the item does not exist in the cache, null will be returned.
- If you wish, you may pass a second argument to the get method specifying the default value you wish to be returned if the item doesn't exist: 

 1 $value = Cache :: get ( ' key ' ); 2   3 $value = Cache :: get ( ' key ' , ' default ' ); 
$value = Cache::get('key');

$value = Cache::get('key', 'default'); 

 You may even pass a closure as the default value.

### Storing Items in the Cache

- You may use the put method on the Cache facade to store items in the cache: 

 1 Cache :: put ( ' key ' , ' value ' , $seconds = 10 ); 
Cache::put('key', 'value', $seconds = 10); 

 If the storage time is not passed to the put method, the item will be stored indefinitely: 

 1 Cache :: put ( ' key ' , ' value ' ); 
Cache::put('key', 'value'); 

 Instead of passing the number of seconds as an integer, you may also pass a DateTime instance representing the desired expiration time of the cached item: 

 1 Cache :: put ( ' key ' , ' value ' , now () -> plus (minutes: 10 )); 
Cache::put('key', 'value', now()->plus(minutes: 10)); 

 Store if Not Present 
 The add method will only add the item to the cache if it does not already exist in the cache store.
- The method will return true if the item is actually added to the cache.
- Otherwise, the method will return false .

### Extending Item Lifetime

- The touch method allows you to extend the lifetime (TTL) of an existing cache item.
- The touch method will return true if the cache item exists and its expiration time was successfully extended.
- If the item does not exist in the cache, the method will return false : 

 1 Cache :: touch ( ' key ' , 3600 ); 
Cache::touch('key', 3600); 

 You may provide a DateTimeInterface , DateInterval , or Carbon instance to specify an exact expiration time: 

 1 Cache :: touch ( ' key ' , now () -> addHours ( 2 )); 
Cache::touch('key', now()->addHours(2)); 

 Storing Items Forever 
 The forever method may be used to store an item in the cache permanently.

### Removing Items From the Cache

- You may remove items from the cache using the forget method: 

 1 Cache :: forget ( ' key ' ); 
Cache::forget('key'); 

 You may also remove items by providing a zero or negative number of expiration seconds: 

 1 Cache :: put ( ' key ' , ' value ' , 0 ); 2   3 Cache :: put ( ' key ' , ' value ' , - 5 ); 
Cache::put('key', 'value', 0);

Cache::put('key', 'value', -5); 

 You may clear the entire cache using the flush method: 

 1 Cache :: flush (); 
Cache::flush(); 

 You may clear all atomic locks in the cache using the flushLocks method: 

 1 Cache :: flushLocks (); 
Cache::flushLocks(); 

Flushing the cache does not respect your configured cache "prefix" and will remove all entries from the cache.
- Consider this carefully when clearing a cache which is shared by other applications.

### Cache Memoization

- Laravel's memo cache driver allows you to temporarily store resolved cache values in memory during a single request or job execution.
- This prevents repeated cache hits within the same execution, significantly improving performance.
- To use the memoized cache, invoke the memo method: 

 1 use Illuminate\Support\Facades\ Cache ; 2   3 $value = Cache :: memo () -> get ( ' key ' ); 
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Cache;

$value = Cache::memo()->get('key'); 

 The memo method optionally accepts the name of a cache store, which specifies the underlying cache store the memoized driver will decorate: 

 1 // Using the default cache store...

### The Cache Helper

- In addition to using the Cache facade, you may also use the global cache function to retrieve and store data via the cache.
- When the cache function is called with a single, string argument, it will return the value of the given key: 

 1 $value = cache ( ' key ' ); 
$value = cache('key'); 

 If you provide an array of key / value pairs and an expiration time to the function, it will store values in the cache for the specified duration: 

 1 cache ([ ' key ' => ' value ' ], $ seconds ); 2   3 cache ([ ' key ' => ' value ' ], now () -> plus ( minutes : 10 )); 
cache(['key' => 'value'], $seconds);

cache(['key' => 'value'], now()->plus(minutes: 10)); 

 When the cache function is called without any arguments, it returns an instance of the Illuminate\Contracts\Cache\Factory implementation, allowing you to call other caching methods: 

 1 cache () -> remember ( ' users ' , $seconds , function () { 2 return DB :: table ( ' users ' ) -> get (); 3 }); 
cache()->remember('users', $seconds, function () {
 return DB::table('users')->get();
}); 

When testing calls to the global cache function, you may use the Cache::shouldReceive method just as if you were testing the facade .

### Cache Tags

- Cache tags are not supported when using the file , dynamodb , database , or storage cache drivers.

### Storing Tagged Cache Items

- Cache tags allow you to tag related items in the cache and then flush all cached values that have been assigned a given tag.
- You may access a tagged cache by passing in an ordered array of tag names.
- For example, let's access a tagged cache and put a value into the cache: 

 1 use Illuminate\Support\Facades\ Cache ; 2   3 Cache :: tags ([ ' people ' , ' artists ' ]) -> put ( ' John ' , $john , $seconds ); 4 Cache :: tags ([ ' people ' , ' authors ' ]) -> put ( ' Anne ' , $anne , $seconds ); 
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Cache;

Cache::tags(['people', 'artists'])->put('John', $john, $seconds);
Cache::tags(['people', 'authors'])->put('Anne', $anne, $seconds);

### Accessing Tagged Cache Items

- Items stored via tags may not be accessed without also providing the tags that were used to store the value.
- To retrieve a tagged cache item, pass the same ordered list of tags to the tags method, then call the get method with the key you wish to retrieve: 

 1 $john = Cache :: tags ([ ' people ' , ' artists ' ]) -> get ( ' John ' ); 2   3 $anne = Cache :: tags ([ ' people ' , ' authors ' ]) -> get ( ' Anne ' ); 
$john = Cache::tags(['people', 'artists'])->get('John');

$anne = Cache::tags(['people', 'authors'])->get('Anne');

### Removing Tagged Cache Items

- You may flush all items that are assigned a tag or list of tags.
- For example, the following code would remove all caches tagged with either people , authors , or both.
- So, both Anne and John would be removed from the cache: 

 1 Cache :: tags ([ ' people ' , ' authors ' ]) -> flush (); 
Cache::tags(['people', 'authors'])->flush(); 

 In contrast, the code below would remove only cached values tagged with authors , so Anne would be removed, but not John : 

 1 Cache :: tags ( ' authors ' ) -> flush (); 
Cache::tags('authors')->flush();

### Atomic Locks

- To utilize this feature, your application must be using the memcached , redis , dynamodb , database , file , or array cache driver as your application's default cache driver.
- In addition, all servers must be communicating with the same central cache server.

### Managing Locks

- Atomic locks allow for the manipulation of distributed locks without worrying about race conditions.
- For example, Laravel Cloud uses atomic locks to ensure that only one remote task is being executed on a server at a time.
- You may create and manage locks using the Cache::lock method: 

 1 use Illuminate\Support\Facades\ Cache ; 2   3 $lock = Cache :: lock ( ' foo ' , 10 ); 4   5 if ( $lock -> get ()) { 6 // Lock acquired for 10 seconds...

### Managing Locks Across Processes

- Sometimes, you may wish to acquire a lock in one process and release it in another process.
- For example, you may acquire a lock during a web request and wish to release the lock at the end of a queued job that is triggered by that request.
- In this scenario, you should pass the lock's scoped "owner token" to the queued job so that the job can re-instantiate the lock using the given token.

### Refreshing Locks

- If you need to extend the expiration of a lock that you currently own, you may use the refresh method.
- If no number of seconds is provided, the lock's original duration will be used.
- This is useful for long-running operations where you prefer to acquire a short lock and periodically extend it instead of acquiring a lock with a very long expiration time: 

 1 $lock = Cache :: lock ( ' generate-reports ' , 60 ); 2   3 if ( $lock -> get ()) { 4 foreach ( $reports as $report ) { 5 $report -> generate (); 6   7 // Extend the lock for another 60 seconds...

### Concurrency Limiting

- Laravel's atomic lock functionality also provides a few ways to limit concurrent execution of closures.
- Use withoutOverlapping when you want to allow only one running instance across your infrastructure: 

 1 Cache :: withoutOverlapping ( ' foo ' , function () { 2 // Lock acquired after waiting a maximum of 10 seconds...
- 3 }); 
Cache::withoutOverlapping('foo', function () {
 // Lock acquired after waiting a maximum of 10 seconds...

### Cache Failover

- The failover cache driver provides automatic failover functionality when interacting with the cache.
- If the primary cache store of the failover store fails for any reason, Laravel will automatically attempt to use the next configured store in the list.
- This is particularly useful for ensuring high availability in production environments where cache reliability is critical.

### Writing the Driver

- To create our custom cache driver, we first need to implement the Illuminate\Contracts\Cache\Store contract .
- So, a MongoDB cache implementation might look something like this: 

 1 <?php 2   3 namespace App\Extensions; 4   5 use Illuminate\Contracts\Cache\ Store ; 6   7 class MongoStore implements Store 8 { 9 public function get ( $key ) {} 10 public function many ( array $keys ) {} 11 public function put ( $key , $value , $seconds ) {} 12 public function putMany ( array $values , $seconds ) {} 13 public function increment ( $key , $value = 1 ) {} 14 public function decrement ( $key , $value = 1 ) {} 15 public function forever ( $key , $value ) {} 16 public function forget ( $key ) {} 17 public function flush () {} 18 public function getPrefix () {} 19 } 
<?php

namespace App\Extensions;

use Illuminate\Contracts\Cache\Store;

class MongoStore implements Store
{
 public function get($key) {}
 public function many(array $keys) {}
 public function put($key, $value, $seconds) {}
 public function putMany(array $values, $seconds) {}
 public function increment($key, $value = 1) {}
 public function decrement($key, $value = 1) {}
 public function forever($key, $value) {}
 public function forget($key) {}
 public function flush() {}
 public function getPrefix() {}
} 

 We just need to implement each of these methods using a MongoDB connection.
- For an example of how to implement each of these methods, take a look at the Illuminate\Cache\MemcachedStore in the Laravel framework source code .

### Registering the Driver

- To register the custom cache driver with Laravel, we will use the extend method on the Cache facade.
- Since other service providers may attempt to read cached values within their boot method, we will register our custom driver within a booting callback.
- By using the booting callback, we can ensure that the custom driver is registered just before the boot method is called on our application's service providers but after the register method is called on all of the service providers.

### Events

- To execute code on every cache operation, you may listen for various events dispatched by the cache: 

 Event Name 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\CacheFlushed 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\CacheFlushing 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\CacheFlushFailed 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\CacheLocksFlushed 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\CacheLocksFlushing 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\CacheLocksFlushFailed 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\CacheHit 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\CacheMissed 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\ForgettingKey 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\KeyForgetFailed 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\KeyForgotten 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\KeyWriteFailed 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\KeyWritten 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\RetrievingKey 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\RetrievingManyKeys 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\WritingKey 

 Illuminate\Cache\Events\WritingManyKeys 

 To increase performance, you may disable cache events by setting the events configuration option to false for a given cache store in your application's config/cache.php configuration file: 

 1 ' database ' => [ 2 ' driver ' => ' database ' , 3 // ...
- 4 ' events ' => false , 5 ], 
'database' => [
 'driver' => 'database',
 // ...
- 'events' => false,
], 

 Copy as markdown

---

## Code Examples

```php
1php artisan make:cache-table2 3php artisan migrate\nphp artisan make:cache-table\n\nphp artisan migrate\n\nMemcached\nUsing the Memcached driver requires the Memcached PECL package to be installed. You may list all of your Memcached servers in the config\/cache.php configuration file. This file already contains a memcached.servers entry to get you started:\n\n 1'memcached' => [ 2    \/\/ ... 3  4    'servers' => [ 5        [ 6            'host' => env('MEMCACHED_HOST', '127.0.0.1'), 7            'port' => env('MEMCACHED_PORT', 11211), 8            'weight' => 100, 9        ],10    ],11],\n'memcached' => [\n    \/\/ ...\n\n    'servers' => [\n        [\n            'host' => env('MEMCACHED_HOST', '127.0.0.1'),\n            'port' => env('MEMCACHED_PORT', 11211),\n            'weight' => 100,\n        ],\n    ],\n],\n\nIf needed, you may set the host option to a UNIX socket path. If you do this, the port option should be set to 0:\n\n 1'memcached' => [ 2    \/\/ ... 3  4    'servers' => [ 5        [ 6            'host' => '\/var\/run\/memcached\/memcached.sock', 7            'port' => 0, 8            'weight' => 100 9        ],10    ],11],\n'memcached' => [\n    \/\/ ...\n\n    'servers' => [\n        [\n            'host' => '\/var\/run\/memcached\/memcached.sock',\n            'port' => 0,\n            'weight' => 100\n        ],\n    ],\n],\n\nRedis\nBefore using a Redis cache with Laravel, you will need to either install the PhpRedis PHP extension via PECL or install the predis\/predis package (~2.0) via Composer. Laravel Sail already includes this extension. In addition, official Laravel application platforms such as Laravel Cloud and Laravel Forge have the PhpRedis extension installed by default.\nFor more information on configuring Redis, consult its Laravel documentation page.\nStorage\nThe storage cache driver allows you to store cached values on any of your application's configured filesystem disks. This can be useful when you want to use an existing disk, such as an S3 disk, as a key \/ value cache store:\n\n1'storage' => [2    'driver' => 'storage',3    'disk' => env('CACHE_STORAGE_DISK'),4    'path' => env('CACHE_STORAGE_PATH', 'framework\/cache\/data'),5],\n'storage' => [\n    'driver' => 'storage',\n    'disk' => env('CACHE_STORAGE_DISK'),\n    'path' => env('CACHE_STORAGE_PATH', 'framework\/cache\/data'),\n],\n\nDynamoDB\nBefore using the DynamoDB cache driver, you must create a DynamoDB table to store all of the cached data. Typically, this table should be named cache. However, you should name the table based on the value of the stores.dynamodb.table configuration value within the cache configuration file. The table name may also be set via the DYNAMODB_CACHE_TABLE environment variable.\nThis table should also have a string partition key with a name that corresponds to the value of the stores.dynamodb.attributes.key configuration item within your application's cache configuration file. By default, the partition key should be named key.\nTypically, DynamoDB will not proactively remove expired items from a table. Therefore, you should enable Time to Live (TTL) on the table. When configuring the table's TTL settings, you should set the TTL attribute name to expires_at.\nNext, install the AWS SDK so that your Laravel application can communicate with DynamoDB:\n\n1composer require aws\/aws-sdk-php\ncomposer require aws\/aws-sdk-php\n\nIn addition, you should ensure that values are provided for the DynamoDB cache store configuration options. Typically these options, such as AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID and AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY, should be defined in your application's .env configuration file:\n\n1'dynamodb' => [2    'driver' => 'dynamodb',3    'key' => env('AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID'),4    'secret' => env('AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY'),5    'region' => env('AWS_DEFAULT_REGION', 'us-east-1'),6    'table' => env('DYNAMODB_CACHE_TABLE', 'cache'),7    'endpoint' => env('DYNAMODB_ENDPOINT'),8],\n'dynamodb' => [\n    'driver' => 'dynamodb',\n    'key' => env('AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID'),\n    'secret' => env('AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY'),\n    'region' => env('AWS_DEFAULT_REGION', 'us-east-1'),\n    'table' => env('DYNAMODB_CACHE_TABLE', 'cache'),\n    'endpoint' => env('DYNAMODB_ENDPOINT'),\n],\n\nMongoDB\nIf you are using MongoDB, a mongodb cache driver is provided by the official mongodb\/laravel-mongodb package and can be configured using a mongodb database connection. MongoDB supports TTL indexes, which can be used to automatically clear expired cache items.\nFor more information on configuring MongoDB, please refer to the MongoDB Cache and Locks documentation.\nCache Usage\nObtaining a Cache Instance\nTo obtain a cache store instance, you may use the Cache facade, which is what we will use throughout this documentation. The Cache facade provides convenient, terse access to the underlying implementations of the Laravel cache contracts:\n\n 1<?php 2  3namespace App\\Http\\Controllers; 4  5use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Cache; 6  7class UserController extends Controller 8{ 9    \/**10     * Show a list of all users of the application.11     *\/12    public function index(): array13    {14        $value = Cache::get('key');15 16        return [17            \/\/ ...18        ];19    }20}\n<?php\n\nnamespace App\\Http\\Controllers;\n\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Cache;\n\nclass UserController extends Controller\n{\n    \/**\n     * Show a list of all users of the application.\n     *\/\n    public function index(): array\n    {\n        $value = Cache::get('key');\n\n        return [\n            \/\/ ...\n        ];\n    }\n}\n\nAccessing Multiple Cache Stores\nUsing the Cache facade, you may access various cache stores via the store method. The key passed to the store method should correspond to one of the stores listed in the stores configuration array in your cache configuration file:\n\n1$value = Cache::store('file')->get('foo');2 3Cache::store('redis')->put('bar', 'baz', 600); \/\/ 10 Minutes\n$value = Cache::store('file')->get('foo');\n\nCache::store('redis')->put('bar', 'baz', 600); \/\/ 10 Minutes\n\nRetrieving Items From the Cache\nThe Cache facade's get method is used to retrieve items from the cache. If the item does not exist in the cache, null will be returned. If you wish, you may pass a second argument to the get method specifying the default value you wish to be returned if the item doesn't exist:\n\n1$value = Cache::get('key');2 3$value = Cache::get('key', 'default');\n$value = Cache::get('key');\n\n$value = Cache::get('key', 'default');\n\nYou may even pass a closure as the default value. The result of the closure will be returned if the specified item does not exist in the cache. Passing a closure allows you to defer the retrieval of default values from a database or other external service:\n\n1$value = Cache::get('key', function () {2    return DB::table(\/* ... *\/)->get();3});\n$value = Cache::get('key', function () {\n    return DB::table(\/* ... *\/)->get();\n});\n\nDetermining Item Existence\nThe has method may be used to determine if an item exists in the cache. This method will also return false if the item exists but its value is null:\n\n1if (Cache::has('key')) {2    \/\/ ...3}\nif (Cache::has('key')) {\n    \/\/ ...\n}\n\nIncrementing \/ Decrementing Values\nThe increment and decrement methods may be used to adjust the value of integer items in the cache. Both of these methods accept an optional second argument indicating the amount by which to increment or decrement the item's value:\n\n1\/\/ Initialize the value if it does not exist...2Cache::add('key', 0, now()->plus(hours: 4));3 4\/\/ Increment or decrement the value...5Cache::increment('key');6Cache::increment('key', $amount);7Cache::decrement('key');8Cache::decrement('key', $amount);\n\/\/ Initialize the value if it does not exist...\nCache::add('key', 0, now()->plus(hours: 4));\n\n\/\/ Increment or decrement the value...\nCache::increment('key');\nCache::increment('key', $amount);\nCache::decrement('key');\nCache::decrement('key', $amount);\n\nRetrieve and Store\nSometimes you may wish to retrieve an item from the cache, but also store a default value if the requested item doesn't exist. For example, you may wish to retrieve all users from the cache or, if they don't exist, retrieve them from the database and add them to the cache. You may do this using the Cache::remember method:\n\n1$value = Cache::remember('users', $seconds, function () {2    return DB::table('users')->get();3});\n$value = Cache::remember('users', $seconds, function () {\n    return DB::table('users')->get();\n});\n\nIf the item does not exist in the cache, the closure passed to the remember method will be executed and its result will be placed in the cache.\nIf you need to know whether the item was retrieved from the cache instead of by executing the given closure, you may use the rememberWithWarmth method. This method returns an array containing the cached value and a boolean indicating whether the item was "warm", meaning it was retrieved from the cache and not resolved from the closure:\n\n1[$value, $warm] = Cache::rememberWithWarmth('users', $seconds, function () {2    return DB::table('users')->get();3});\n[$value, $warm] = Cache::rememberWithWarmth('users', $seconds, function () {\n    return DB::table('users')->get();\n});\n\nYou may use the rememberForever method to retrieve an item from the cache or store it forever if it does not exist:\n\n1$value = Cache::rememberForever('users', function () {2    return DB::table('users')->get();3});\n$value = Cache::rememberForever('users', function () {\n    return DB::table('users')->get();\n});\n\nStale While Revalidate\nWhen using the Cache::remember method, some users may experience slow response times if the cached value has expired. For certain types of data, it can be useful to allow partially stale data to be served while the cached value is recalculated in the background, preventing some users from experiencing slow response times while cached values are calculated. This is often referred to as the "stale-while-revalidate" pattern, and the Cache::flexible method provides an implementation of this pattern.\nThe flexible method accepts an array that specifies how long the cached value is considered "fresh" and when it becomes "stale". The first value in the array represents the number of seconds the cache is considered fresh, while the second value defines how long it can be served as stale data before recalculation is necessary.\nIf a request is made within the fresh period (before the first value), the cache is returned immediately without recalculation. If a request is made during the stale period (between the two values), the stale value is served to the user, and a deferred function is registered to refresh the cached value after the response is sent to the user. If a request is made after the second value, the cache is considered expired, and the value is recalculated immediately, which may result in a slower response for the user:\n\n1$value = Cache::flexible('users', [5, 10], function () {2    return DB::table('users')->get();3});\n$value = Cache::flexible('users', [5, 10], function () {\n    return DB::table('users')->get();\n});\n\nRetrieve and Delete\nIf you need to retrieve an item from the cache and then delete the item, you may use the pull method. Like the get method, null will be returned if the item does not exist in the cache:\n\n1$value = Cache::pull('key');2 3$value = Cache::pull('key', 'default');\n$value = Cache::pull('key');\n\n$value = Cache::pull('key', 'default');\n\nStoring Items in the Cache\nYou may use the put method on the Cache facade to store items in the cache:\n\n1Cache::put('key', 'value', $seconds = 10);\nCache::put('key', 'value', $seconds = 10);\n\nIf the storage time is not passed to the put method, the item will be stored indefinitely:\n\n1Cache::put('key', 'value');\nCache::put('key', 'value');\n\nInstead of passing the number of seconds as an integer, you may also pass a DateTime instance representing the desired expiration time of the cached item:\n\n1Cache::put('key', 'value', now()->plus(minutes: 10));\nCache::put('key', 'value', now()->plus(minutes: 10));\n\nStore if Not Present\nThe add method will only add the item to the cache if it does not already exist in the cache store. The method will return true if the item is actually added to the cache. Otherwise, the method will return false. The add method is an atomic operation:\n\n1Cache::add('key', 'value', $seconds);\nCache::add('key', 'value', $seconds);\n\nExtending Item Lifetime\nThe touch method allows you to extend the lifetime (TTL) of an existing cache item. The touch method will return true if the cache item exists and its expiration time was successfully extended. If the item does not exist in the cache, the method will return false:\n\n1Cache::touch('key', 3600);\nCache::touch('key', 3600);\n\nYou may provide a DateTimeInterface, DateInterval, or Carbon instance to specify an exact expiration time:\n\n1Cache::touch('key', now()->addHours(2));\nCache::touch('key', now()->addHours(2));\n\nStoring Items Forever\nThe forever method may be used to store an item in the cache permanently. Since these items will not expire, they must be manually removed from the cache using the forget method:\n\n1Cache::forever('key', 'value');\nCache::forever('key', 'value');\n\n\n    \n        \n\n\n\n    \n    \nIf you are using the Memcached driver, items that are stored "forever" may be removed when the cache reaches its size limit.\n\nRemoving Items From the Cache\nYou may remove items from the cache using the forget method:\n\n1Cache::forget('key');\nCache::forget('key');\n\nYou may also remove items by providing a zero or negative number of expiration seconds:\n\n1Cache::put('key', 'value', 0);2 3Cache::put('key', 'value', -5);\nCache::put('key', 'value', 0);\n\nCache::put('key', 'value', -5);\n\nYou may clear the entire cache using the flush method:\n\n1Cache::flush();\nCache::flush();\n\nYou may clear all atomic locks in the cache using the flushLocks method:\n\n1Cache::flushLocks();\nCache::flushLocks();\n\n\n    \n        \n\n\n\n    \n    \nFlushing the cache does not respect your configured cache "prefix" and will remove all entries from the cache. Consider this carefully when clearing a cache which is shared by other applications.\n\nCache Memoization\nLaravel's memo cache driver allows you to temporarily store resolved cache values in memory during a single request or job execution. This prevents repeated cache hits within the same execution, significantly improving performance.\nTo use the memoized cache, invoke the memo method:\n\n1use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Cache;2 3$value = Cache::memo()->get('key');\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Cache;\n\n$value = Cache::memo()->get('key');\n\nThe memo method optionally accepts the name of a cache store, which specifies the underlying cache store the memoized driver will decorate:\n\n1\/\/ Using the default cache store...2$value = Cache::memo()->get('key');3 4\/\/ Using the Redis cache store...5$value = Cache::memo('redis')->get('key');\n\/\/ Using the default cache store...\n$value = Cache::memo()->get('key');\n\n\/\/ Using the Redis cache store...\n$value = Cache::memo('redis')->get('key');\n\nThe first get call for a given key retrieves the value from your cache store, but subsequent calls within the same request or job will retrieve the value from memory:\n\n1\/\/ Hits the cache...2$value = Cache::memo()->get('key');3 4\/\/ Does not hit the cache, returns memoized value...5$value = Cache::memo()->get('key');\n\/\/ Hits the cache...\n$value = Cache::memo()->get('key');\n\n\/\/ Does not hit the cache, returns memoized value...\n$value = Cache::memo()->get('key');\n\nWhen calling methods that modify cache values (such as put, increment, remember, etc.), the memoized cache automatically forgets the memoized value and delegates the mutating method call to the underlying cache store:\n\n1Cache::memo()->put('name', 'Taylor'); \/\/ Writes to underlying cache...2Cache::memo()->get('name');           \/\/ Hits underlying cache...3Cache::memo()->get('name');           \/\/ Memoized, does not hit cache...4 5Cache::memo()->put('name', 'Tim');    \/\/ Forgets memoized value, writes new value...6Cache::memo()->get('name');           \/\/ Hits underlying cache again...\nCache::memo()->put('name', 'Taylor'); \/\/ Writes to underlying cache...\nCache::memo()->get('name');           \/\/ Hits underlying cache...\nCache::memo()->get('name');           \/\/ Memoized, does not hit cache...\n\nCache::memo()->put('name', 'Tim');    \/\/ Forgets memoized value, writes new value...\nCache::memo()->get('name');           \/\/ Hits underlying cache again...\n\nThe Cache Helper\nIn addition to using the Cache facade, you may also use the global cache function to retrieve and store data via the cache. When the cache function is called with a single, string argument, it will return the value of the given key:\n\n1$value = cache('key');\n$value = cache('key');\n\nIf you provide an array of key \/ value pairs and an expiration time to the function, it will store values in the cache for the specified duration:\n\n1cache(['key' => 'value'], $seconds);2 3cache(['key' => 'value'], now()->plus(minutes: 10));\ncache(['key' => 'value'], $seconds);\n\ncache(['key' => 'value'], now()->plus(minutes: 10));\n\nWhen the cache function is called without any arguments, it returns an instance of the Illuminate\\Contracts\\Cache\\Factory implementation, allowing you to call other caching methods:\n\n1cache()->remember('users', $seconds, function () {2    return DB::table('users')->get();3});\ncache()->remember('users', $seconds, function () {\n    return DB::table('users')->get();\n});\n\n\n    \n        \n\n\n\n    \n    \nWhen testing calls to the global cache function, you may use the Cache::shouldReceive method just as if you were testing the facade.\n\nCache Tags\n\n    \n        \n\n\n\n    \n    \nCache tags are not supported when using the file, dynamodb, database, or storage cache drivers.\n\nStoring Tagged Cache Items\nCache tags allow you to tag related items in the cache and then flush all cached values that have been assigned a given tag. You may access a tagged cache by passing in an ordered array of tag names. For example, let's access a tagged cache and put a value into the cache:\n\n1use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Cache;2 3Cache::tags(['people', 'artists'])->put('John', $john, $seconds);4Cache::tags(['people', 'authors'])->put('Anne', $anne, $seconds);\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Cache;\n\nCache::tags(['people', 'artists'])->put('John', $john, $seconds);\nCache::tags(['people', 'authors'])->put('Anne', $anne, $seconds);\n\nAccessing Tagged Cache Items\nItems stored via tags may not be accessed without also providing the tags that were used to store the value. To retrieve a tagged cache item, pass the same ordered list of tags to the tags method, then call the get method with the key you wish to retrieve:\n\n1$john = Cache::tags(['people', 'artists'])->get('John');2 3$anne = Cache::tags(['people', 'authors'])->get('Anne');\n$john = Cache::tags(['people', 'artists'])->get('John');\n\n$anne = Cache::tags(['people', 'authors'])->get('Anne');\n\nRemoving Tagged Cache Items\nYou may flush all items that are assigned a tag or list of tags. For example, the following code would remove all caches tagged with either people, authors, or both. So, both Anne and John would be removed from the cache:\n\n1Cache::tags(['people', 'authors'])->flush();\nCache::tags(['people', 'authors'])->flush();\n\nIn contrast, the code below would remove only cached values tagged with authors, so Anne would be removed, but not John:\n\n1Cache::tags('authors')->flush();\nCache::tags('authors')->flush();\n\nAtomic Locks\n\n    \n        \n\n\n\n    \n    \nTo utilize this feature, your application must be using the memcached, redis, dynamodb, database, file, or array cache driver as your application's default cache driver. In addition, all servers must be communicating with the same central cache server.\n\nManaging Locks\nAtomic locks allow for the manipulation of distributed locks without worrying about race conditions. For example, Laravel Cloud uses atomic locks to ensure that only one remote task is being executed on a server at a time. You may create and manage locks using the Cache::lock method:\n\n1use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Cache;2 3$lock = Cache::lock('foo', 10);4 5if ($lock->get()) {6    \/\/ Lock acquired for 10 seconds...7 8    $lock->release();9}\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Cache;\n\n$lock = Cache::lock('foo', 10);\n\nif ($lock->get()) {\n    \/\/ Lock acquired for 10 seconds...\n\n    $lock->release();\n}\n\nThe get method also accepts a closure. After the closure is executed, Laravel will automatically release the lock:\n\n1Cache::lock('foo', 10)->get(function () {2    \/\/ Lock acquired for 10 seconds and automatically released...3});\nCache::lock('foo', 10)->get(function () {\n    \/\/ Lock acquired for 10 seconds and automatically released...\n});\n\nIf the lock is not available at the moment you request it, you may instruct Laravel to wait for a specified number of seconds. If the lock cannot be acquired within the specified time limit, an Illuminate\\Contracts\\Cache\\LockTimeoutException will be thrown:\n\n 1use Illuminate\\Contracts\\Cache\\LockTimeoutException; 2  3$lock = Cache::lock('foo', 10); 4  5try { 6    $lock->block(5); 7  8    \/\/ Lock acquired after waiting a maximum of 5 seconds... 9} catch (LockTimeoutException $e) {10    \/\/ Unable to acquire lock...11} finally {12    $lock->release();13}\nuse Illuminate\\Contracts\\Cache\\LockTimeoutException;\n\n$lock = Cache::lock('foo', 10);\n\ntry {\n    $lock->block(5);\n\n    \/\/ Lock acquired after waiting a maximum of 5 seconds...\n} catch (LockTimeoutException $e) {\n    \/\/ Unable to acquire lock...\n} finally {\n    $lock->release();\n}\n\nThe example above may be simplified by passing a closure to the block method. When a closure is passed to this method, Laravel will attempt to acquire the lock for the specified number of seconds and will automatically release the lock once the closure has been executed:\n\n1Cache::lock('foo', 10)->block(5, function () {2    \/\/ Lock acquired for 10 seconds after waiting a maximum of 5 seconds...3});\nCache::lock('foo', 10)->block(5, function () {\n    \/\/ Lock acquired for 10 seconds after waiting a maximum of 5 seconds...\n});\n\nManaging Locks Across Processes\nSometimes, you may wish to acquire a lock in one process and release it in another process. For example, you may acquire a lock during a web request and wish to release the lock at the end of a queued job that is triggered by that request. In this scenario, you should pass the lock's scoped "owner token" to the queued job so that the job can re-instantiate the lock using the given token.\nIn the example below, we will dispatch a queued job if a lock is successfully acquired. In addition, we will pass the lock's owner token to the queued job via the lock's owner method:\n\n1$podcast = Podcast::find($id);2 3$lock = Cache::lock('processing', 120);4 5if ($lock->get()) {6    ProcessPodcast::dispatch($podcast, $lock->owner());7}\n$podcast = Podcast::find($id);\n\n$lock = Cache::lock('processing', 120);\n\nif ($lock->get()) {\n    ProcessPodcast::dispatch($podcast, $lock->owner());\n}\n\nWithin our application's ProcessPodcast job, we can restore and release the lock using the owner token:\n\n1Cache::restoreLock('processing', $this->owner)->release();\nCache::restoreLock('processing', $this->owner)->release();\n\nIf you would like to release a lock without respecting its current owner, you may use the forceRelease method:\n\n1Cache::lock('processing')->forceRelease();\nCache::lock('processing')->forceRelease();\n\nRefreshing Locks\nIf you need to extend the expiration of a lock that you currently own, you may use the refresh method. If no number of seconds is provided, the lock's original duration will be used. This is useful for long-running operations where you prefer to acquire a short lock and periodically extend it instead of acquiring a lock with a very long expiration time:\n\n 1$lock = Cache::lock('generate-reports', 60); 2  3if ($lock->get()) { 4    foreach ($reports as $report) { 5        $report->generate(); 6  7        \/\/ Extend the lock for another 60 seconds... 8        $lock->refresh(); 9    }10 11    $lock->release();12}\n$lock = Cache::lock('generate-reports', 60);\n\nif ($lock->get()) {\n    foreach ($reports as $report) {\n        $report->generate();\n\n        \/\/ Extend the lock for another 60 seconds...\n        $lock->refresh();\n    }\n\n    $lock->release();\n}\n\nConcurrency Limiting\nLaravel's atomic lock functionality also provides a few ways to limit concurrent execution of closures. Use withoutOverlapping when you want to allow only one running instance across your infrastructure:\n\n1Cache::withoutOverlapping('foo', function () {2    \/\/ Lock acquired after waiting a maximum of 10 seconds...3});\nCache::withoutOverlapping('foo', function () {\n    \/\/ Lock acquired after waiting a maximum of 10 seconds...\n});\n\nBy default, the lock is held until the closure finishes executing, and the method waits up to 10 seconds to acquire the lock. You may customize these values using additional arguments:\n\n1Cache::withoutOverlapping('foo', function () {2    \/\/ Lock acquired for 120 seconds after waiting a maximum of 5 seconds...3}, lockFor: 120, waitFor: 5);\nCache::withoutOverlapping('foo', function () {\n    \/\/ Lock acquired for 120 seconds after waiting a maximum of 5 seconds...\n}, lockFor: 120, waitFor: 5);\n\nIf the lock cannot be acquired within the specified wait time, an Illuminate\\Contracts\\Cache\\LockTimeoutException will be thrown.\nIf you want controlled parallelism, use the funnel method to set a maximum number of concurrent executions. The funnel method works with any cache driver that supports locks:\n\n1Cache::funnel('foo')2    ->limit(3)3    ->releaseAfter(60)4    ->block(10)5    ->then(function () {6        \/\/ Concurrency lock acquired...7    }, function () {8        \/\/ Could not acquire concurrency lock...9    });\nCache::funnel('foo')\n    ->limit(3)\n    ->releaseAfter(60)\n    ->block(10)\n    ->then(function () {\n        \/\/ Concurrency lock acquired...\n    }, function () {\n        \/\/ Could not acquire concurrency lock...\n    });\n\nThe funnel key identifies the resource being limited. The limit method defines the maximum concurrent executions. The releaseAfter method sets a safety timeout in seconds before an acquired slot is automatically released. The block method sets how many seconds to wait for an available slot.\nIf you prefer to handle the timeout via exceptions instead of providing a failure closure, you may omit the second closure. An Illuminate\\Cache\\Limiters\\LimiterTimeoutException will be thrown if the lock cannot be acquired within the specified wait time:\n\n 1use Illuminate\\Cache\\Limiters\\LimiterTimeoutException; 2  3try { 4    Cache::funnel('foo') 5        ->limit(3) 6        ->releaseAfter(60) 7        ->block(10) 8        ->then(function () { 9            \/\/ Concurrency lock acquired...10        });11} catch (LimiterTimeoutException $e) {12    \/\/ Unable to acquire concurrency lock...13}\nuse Illuminate\\Cache\\Limiters\\LimiterTimeoutException;\n\ntry {\n    Cache::funnel('foo')\n        ->limit(3)\n        ->releaseAfter(60)\n        ->block(10)\n        ->then(function () {\n            \/\/ Concurrency lock acquired...\n        });\n} catch (LimiterTimeoutException $e) {\n    \/\/ Unable to acquire concurrency lock...\n}\n\nIf you would like to use a specific cache store for the concurrency limiter, you may invoke the funnel method on the desired store:\n\n1Cache::store('redis')->funnel('foo')2    ->limit(3)3    ->block(10)4    ->then(function () {5        \/\/ Concurrency lock acquired using the "redis" store...6    });\nCache::store('redis')->funnel('foo')\n    ->limit(3)\n    ->block(10)\n    ->then(function () {\n        \/\/ Concurrency lock acquired using the "redis" store...\n    });\n\n\n    \n        \n\n\n\n    \n    \nThe funnel method requires the cache store to implement the Illuminate\\Contracts\\Cache\\LockProvider interface. If you attempt to use funnel with a cache store that does not support locks, a BadMethodCallException will be thrown.\n\nCache Failover\nThe failover cache driver provides automatic failover functionality when interacting with the cache. If the primary cache store of the failover store fails for any reason, Laravel will automatically attempt to use the next configured store in the list. This is particularly useful for ensuring high availability in production environments where cache reliability is critical.\nTo configure a failover cache store, specify the failover driver and provide an array of store names to attempt in order. By default, Laravel includes an example failover configuration in your application's config\/cache.php configuration file:\n\n1'failover' => [2    'driver' => 'failover',3    'stores' => [4        'database',5        'array',6    ],7],\n'failover' => [\n    'driver' => 'failover',\n    'stores' => [\n        'database',\n        'array',\n    ],\n],\n\nOnce you have configured a store that uses the failover driver, you will need to set the failover store as your default cache store in your application's .env file to make use of the failover functionality:\n\n1CACHE_STORE=failover\nCACHE_STORE=failover\n\nWhen a cache store operation fails and failover is activated, Laravel will dispatch the Illuminate\\Cache\\Events\\CacheFailedOver event, allowing you to report or log that a cache store has failed.\nAdding Custom Cache Drivers\nWriting the Driver\nTo create our custom cache driver, we first need to implement the Illuminate\\Contracts\\Cache\\Store contract. So, a MongoDB cache implementation might look something like this:\n\n 1<?php 2  3namespace App\\Extensions; 4  5use Illuminate\\Contracts\\Cache\\Store; 6  7class MongoStore implements Store 8{ 9    public function get($key) {}10    public function many(array $keys) {}11    public function put($key, $value, $seconds) {}12    public function putMany(array $values, $seconds) {}13    public function increment($key, $value = 1) {}14    public function decrement($key, $value = 1) {}15    public function forever($key, $value) {}16    public function forget($key) {}17    public function flush() {}18    public function getPrefix() {}19}\n<?php\n\nnamespace App\\Extensions;\n\nuse Illuminate\\Contracts\\Cache\\Store;\n\nclass MongoStore implements Store\n{\n    public function get($key) {}\n    public function many(array $keys) {}\n    public function put($key, $value, $seconds) {}\n    public function putMany(array $values, $seconds) {}\n    public function increment($key, $value = 1) {}\n    public function decrement($key, $value = 1) {}\n    public function forever($key, $value) {}\n    public function forget($key) {}\n    public function flush() {}\n    public function getPrefix() {}\n}\n\nWe just need to implement each of these methods using a MongoDB connection. For an example of how to implement each of these methods, take a look at the Illuminate\\Cache\\MemcachedStore in the Laravel framework source code. Once our implementation is complete, we can finish our custom driver registration by calling the Cache facade's extend method:\n\n1Cache::extend('mongo', function (Application $app) {2    return Cache::repository(new MongoStore);3});\nCache::extend('mongo', function (Application $app) {\n    return Cache::repository(new MongoStore);\n});\n\n\n    \n        \n\n\n\n    \n    \nIf you're wondering where to put your custom cache driver code, you could create an Extensions namespace within your app directory. However, keep in mind that Laravel does not have a rigid application structure and you are free to organize your application according to your preferences.\n\nRegistering the Driver\nTo register the custom cache driver with Laravel, we will use the extend method on the Cache facade. Since other service providers may attempt to read cached values within their boot method, we will register our custom driver within a booting callback. By using the booting callback, we can ensure that the custom driver is registered just before the boot method is called on our application's service providers but after the register method is called on all of the service providers. We will register our booting callback within the register method of our application's App\\Providers\\AppServiceProvider class:\n\n 1<?php 2  3namespace App\\Providers; 4  5use App\\Extensions\\MongoStore; 6use Illuminate\\Contracts\\Foundation\\Application; 7use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Cache; 8use Illuminate\\Support\\ServiceProvider; 9 10class AppServiceProvider extends ServiceProvider11{12    \/**13     * Register any application services.14     *\/15    public function register(): void16    {17        $this->app->booting(function () {18             Cache::extend('mongo', function (Application $app) {19                 return Cache::repository(new MongoStore);20             });21         });22    }23 24    \/**25     * Bootstrap any application services.26     *\/27    public function boot(): void28    {29        \/\/ ...30    }31}\n<?php\n\nnamespace App\\Providers;\n\nuse App\\Extensions\\MongoStore;\nuse Illuminate\\Contracts\\Foundation\\Application;\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Cache;\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\ServiceProvider;\n\nclass AppServiceProvider extends ServiceProvider\n{\n    \/**\n     * Register any application services.\n     *\/\n    public function register(): void\n    {\n        $this->app->booting(function () {\n             Cache::extend('mongo', function (Application $app) {\n                 return Cache::repository(new MongoStore);\n             });\n         });\n    }\n\n    \/**\n     * Bootstrap any application services.\n     *\/\n    public function boot(): void\n    {\n        \/\/ ...\n    }\n}\n\nThe first argument passed to the extend method is the name of the driver. This will correspond to your driver option in the config\/cache.php configuration file. The second argument is a closure that should return an Illuminate\\Cache\\Repository instance. The closure will be passed an $app instance, which is an instance of the service container.\nOnce your extension is registered, update the CACHE_STORE environment variable or default option within your application's config\/cache.php configuration file to the name of your extension.\nEvents\nTo execute code on every cache operation, you may listen for various events dispatched by the cache:\n\n\n\n\nEvent Name\n\n\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\CacheFlushed\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\CacheFlushing\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\CacheFlushFailed\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\CacheLocksFlushed\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\CacheLocksFlushing\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\CacheLocksFlushFailed\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\CacheHit\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\CacheMissed\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\ForgettingKey\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\KeyForgetFailed\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\KeyForgotten\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\KeyWriteFailed\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\KeyWritten\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\RetrievingKey\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\RetrievingManyKeys\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\WritingKey\n\n\nIlluminate\\Cache\\Events\\WritingManyKeys\n\n\n\n\nTo increase performance, you may disable cache events by setting the events configuration option to false for a given cache store in your application's config\/cache.php configuration file:\n\n1'database' => [2    'driver' => 'database',3    \/\/ ...4    'events' => false,5],\n'database' => [\n    'driver' => 'database',\n    \/\/ ...\n    'events' => false,\n],\n\n","index":[{"title":"Prologue","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Release Notes","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/releases","active":false},{"title":"Upgrade Guide","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/upgrade","active":false},{"title":"Contribution Guide","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/contributions","active":false}]},{"title":"Getting Started","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Installation","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/installation","active":false},{"title":"Configuration","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/configuration","active":false},{"title":"Agentic Development","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/ai","active":false},{"title":"Directory Structure","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/structure","active":false},{"title":"Frontend","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/frontend","active":false},{"title":"Starter Kits","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/starter-kits","active":false},{"title":"Deployment","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/deployment","active":false}]},{"title":"Architecture Concepts","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Request Lifecycle","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/lifecycle","active":false},{"title":"Service Container","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/container","active":false},{"title":"Service Providers","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/providers","active":false},{"title":"Facades","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/facades","active":false}]},{"title":"The Basics","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Routing","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/routing","active":false},{"title":"Middleware","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/middleware","active":false},{"title":"CSRF Protection","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/csrf","active":false},{"title":"Controllers","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/controllers","active":false},{"title":"Requests","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/requests","active":false},{"title":"Responses","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/responses","active":false},{"title":"Views","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/views","active":false},{"title":"Blade Templates","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/blade","active":false},{"title":"Asset Bundling","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/vite","active":false},{"title":"URL Generation","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/urls","active":false},{"title":"Session","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/session","active":false},{"title":"Validation","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/validation","active":false},{"title":"Error Handling","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/errors","active":false},{"title":"Logging","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/logging","active":false}]},{"title":"Digging Deeper","active":true,"items":[{"title":"Artisan Console","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/artisan","active":false},{"title":"Broadcasting","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/broadcasting","active":false},{"title":"Cache","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/cache","active":true},{"title":"Collections","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/collections","active":false},{"title":"Concurrency","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/concurrency","active":false},{"title":"Context","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/context","active":false},{"title":"Contracts","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/contracts","active":false},{"title":"Events","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/events","active":false},{"title":"File Storage","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/filesystem","active":false},{"title":"Helpers","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/helpers","active":false},{"title":"HTTP Client","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/http-client","active":false},{"title":"Images","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/images","active":false},{"title":"Localization","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/localization","active":false},{"title":"Mail","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/mail","active":false},{"title":"Notifications","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/notifications","active":false},{"title":"Package Development","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/packages","active":false},{"title":"Processes","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/processes","active":false},{"title":"Queues","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/queues","active":false},{"title":"Rate Limiting","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/rate-limiting","active":false},{"title":"Search","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/search","active":false},{"title":"Strings","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/strings","active":false},{"title":"Task Scheduling","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/scheduling","active":false}]},{"title":"Security","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Authentication","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/authentication","active":false},{"title":"Authorization","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/authorization","active":false},{"title":"Email Verification","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/verification","active":false},{"title":"Encryption","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/encryption","active":false},{"title":"Hashing","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/hashing","active":false},{"title":"Password Reset","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/passwords","active":false}]},{"title":"Database","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Getting Started","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/database","active":false},{"title":"Query Builder","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/queries","active":false},{"title":"Pagination","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/pagination","active":false},{"title":"Migrations","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/migrations","active":false},{"title":"Seeding","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/seeding","active":false},{"title":"Redis","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/redis","active":false},{"title":"MongoDB","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/mongodb","active":false}]},{"title":"Eloquent ORM","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Getting Started","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/eloquent","active":false},{"title":"Relationships","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/eloquent-relationships","active":false},{"title":"Collections","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/eloquent-collections","active":false},{"title":"Mutators \/ Casts","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/eloquent-mutators","active":false},{"title":"API Resources","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/eloquent-resources","active":false},{"title":"Serialization","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/eloquent-serialization","active":false},{"title":"Factories","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/eloquent-factories","active":false}]},{"title":"AI","active":false,"items":[{"title":"AI SDK","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/ai-sdk","active":false},{"title":"MCP","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/mcp","active":false},{"title":"Boost","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/boost","active":false}]},{"title":"Testing","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Getting Started","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/testing","active":false},{"title":"HTTP Tests","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/http-tests","active":false},{"title":"Console Tests","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/console-tests","active":false},{"title":"Browser Tests","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/dusk","active":false},{"title":"Database","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/database-testing","active":false},{"title":"Mocking","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/mocking","active":false}]},{"title":"Packages","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Cashier (Stripe)","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/billing","active":false},{"title":"Cashier (Paddle)","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/cashier-paddle","active":false},{"title":"Dusk","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/dusk","active":false},{"title":"Envoy","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/envoy","active":false},{"title":"Fortify","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/fortify","active":false},{"title":"Folio","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/folio","active":false},{"title":"Homestead","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/homestead","active":false},{"title":"Horizon","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/horizon","active":false},{"title":"Mix","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/mix","active":false},{"title":"Octane","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/octane","active":false},{"title":"Passport","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/passport","active":false},{"title":"Pennant","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/pennant","active":false},{"title":"Pint","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/pint","active":false},{"title":"Precognition","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/precognition","active":false},{"title":"Prompts","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/prompts","active":false},{"title":"Pulse","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/pulse","active":false},{"title":"Reverb","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/reverb","active":false},{"title":"Sail","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/sail","active":false},{"title":"Sanctum","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/sanctum","active":false},{"title":"Scout","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/scout","active":false},{"title":"Socialite","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/socialite","active":false},{"title":"Telescope","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/telescope","active":false},{"title":"Valet","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/valet","active":false}]}],"tableOfContents":[{"text":"Introduction","href":"#introduction","children":[]},{"text":"Configuration","href":"#configuration","children":[{"text":"Driver Prerequisites","href":"#driver-prerequisites"}]},{"text":"Cache Usage","href":"#cache-usage","children":[{"text":"Obtaining a Cache Instance","href":"#obtaining-a-cache-instance"},{"text":"Retrieving Items From the Cache","href":"#retrieving-items-from-the-cache"},{"text":"Storing Items in the Cache","href":"#storing-items-in-the-cache"},{"text":"Extending Item Lifetime","href":"#extending-item-lifetime"},{"text":"Removing Items From the Cache","href":"#removing-items-from-the-cache"},{"text":"Cache Memoization","href":"#cache-memoization"},{"text":"The Cache Helper","href":"#the-cache-helper"}]},{"text":"Cache Tags","href":"#cache-tags","children":[]},{"text":"Atomic Locks","href":"#atomic-locks","children":[{"text":"Managing Locks","href":"#managing-locks"},{"text":"Managing Locks Across Processes","href":"#managing-locks-across-processes"},{"text":"Refreshing Locks","href":"#refreshing-locks"},{"text":"Concurrency Limiting","href":"#concurrency-limiting"}]},{"text":"Cache Failover","href":"#cache-failover","children":[]},{"text":"Adding Custom Cache Drivers","href":"#adding-custom-cache-drivers","children":[{"text":"Writing the Driver","href":"#writing-the-driver"},{"text":"Registering the Driver","href":"#registering-the-driver"}]},{"text":"Events","href":"#events","children":[]}],"currentVersion":"13.x","versions":{"master":"Master","13.x":"13.x","12.x":"12.x","11.x":"11.x","10.x":"10.x","9.x":"9.x","8.x":"8.x","7.x":"7.x","6.x":"6.x","5.8":"5.8","5.7":"5.7","5.6":"5.6","5.5":"5.5","5.4":"5.4","5.3":"5.3","5.2":"5.2","5.1":"5.1","5.0":"5.0","4.2":"4.2"},"currentSection":"\/cache","canonical":"docs\/13.x\/cache","page":"cache","isOldVersion":false,"isUpcomingVersion":false,"defaultVersion":"13.x","markdownUrl":"https:\/\/laravel.com\/docs\/13.x\/cache.md"},"url":"\/docs\/13.x\/cache","version":"f39aa9594c6364b41709b0abbb6dc3ee","sharedProps":["errors","appUrl","events","featuredEvents","navPartners","featuredArticle","alerts","githubStars","footerNavigation","themeMode","turnstileSiteKey","hubspot","mapboxPublicKey"]}Home⌘KVersion MasterVersion 13.xVersion 12.xVersion 11.xVersion 10.xVersion 9.xVersion 8.xVersion 7.xVersion 6.xVersion 5.8Version 5.7Version 5.6Version 5.5Version 5.4Version 5.3Version 5.2Version 5.1Version 5.0Version 4.2vMasterv13.xv12.xv11.xv10.xv9.xv8.xv7.xv6.xv5.8v5.7v5.6v5.5v5.4v5.3v5.2v5.1v5.0v4.2Switch to light modeSkip to contentPrologueRelease NotesUpgrade GuideContribution GuideGetting StartedInstallationConfigurationAgentic DevelopmentDirectory StructureFrontendStarter KitsDeploymentArchitecture ConceptsRequest LifecycleService ContainerService ProvidersFacadesThe BasicsRoutingMiddlewareCSRF ProtectionControllersRequestsResponsesViewsBlade TemplatesAsset BundlingURL GenerationSessionValidationError HandlingLoggingDigging DeeperArtisan ConsoleBroadcastingCacheCollectionsConcurrencyContextContractsEventsFile StorageHelpersHTTP ClientImagesLocalizationMailNotificationsPackage DevelopmentProcessesQueuesRate LimitingSearchStringsTask SchedulingSecurityAuthenticationAuthorizationEmail VerificationEncryptionHashingPassword ResetDatabaseGetting StartedQuery BuilderPaginationMigrationsSeedingRedisMongoDBEloquent ORMGetting StartedRelationshipsCollectionsMutators / CastsAPI ResourcesSerializationFactoriesAIAI SDKMCPBoostTestingGetting StartedHTTP TestsConsole TestsBrowser TestsDatabaseMockingPackagesCashier (Stripe)Cashier (Paddle)DuskEnvoyFortifyFolioHomesteadHorizonMixOctanePassportPennantPintPrecognitionPromptsPulseReverbSailSanctumScoutSocialiteTelescopeValetAPI DocumentationChangelogCache

Introduction
Configuration

Driver Prerequisites


Cache Usage

Obtaining a Cache Instance
Retrieving Items From the Cache
Storing Items in the Cache
Extending Item Lifetime
Removing Items From the Cache
Cache Memoization
The Cache Helper


Cache Tags
// ...
```

```php
1'memcached' => [ 2    // ... 3  4    'servers' => [ 5        [ 6            'host' => env('MEMCACHED_HOST', '127.0.0.1'), 7            'port' => env('MEMCACHED_PORT', 11211), 8            'weight' => 100, 9        ],10    ],11],
'memcached' => [
    // ...

    'servers' => [
        [
            'host' => env('MEMCACHED_HOST', '127.0.0.1'),
            'port' => env('MEMCACHED_PORT', 11211),
            'weight' => 100,
        ],
    ],
],
```

```php
1'memcached' => [ 2    // ... 3  4    'servers' => [ 5        [ 6            'host' => '/var/run/memcached/memcached.sock', 7            'port' => 0, 8            'weight' => 100 9        ],10    ],11],
'memcached' => [
    // ...

    'servers' => [
        [
            'host' => '/var/run/memcached/memcached.sock',
            'port' => 0,
            'weight' => 100
        ],
    ],
],
```

```php
1'storage' => [2    'driver' => 'storage',3    'disk' => env('CACHE_STORAGE_DISK'),4    'path' => env('CACHE_STORAGE_PATH', 'framework/cache/data'),5],
'storage' => [
    'driver' => 'storage',
    'disk' => env('CACHE_STORAGE_DISK'),
    'path' => env('CACHE_STORAGE_PATH', 'framework/cache/data'),
],
```

```php
1composer require aws/aws-sdk-php
composer require aws/aws-sdk-php
```

---

*2026-07-20 — Laravel 13.x study notes*