# Routing

**Day 8 | Topic 8/59** | [Docs](https://laravel.com/docs/13.x/routing) | Next: [Middleware](https://laravel.com/docs/13.x/middleware)

---

## Key Points

### Getting Started

- Installation Configuration Agentic Development Directory Structure Frontend Starter Kits Deployment

### The Basics

- Routing Middleware CSRF Protection Controllers Requests Responses Views Blade Templates Asset Bundling URL Generation Session Validation Error Handling Logging

### Digging Deeper

- Artisan Console Broadcasting Cache Collections Concurrency Context Contracts Events File Storage Helpers HTTP Client Localization Mail Notifications Package Development Processes Queues Rate Limiting Search Strings Task Scheduling

### Security

- Authentication Authorization Email Verification Encryption Hashing Password Reset

### Eloquent ORM

- Getting Started Relationships Collections Mutators / Casts API Resources Serialization Factories

### Packages

- Cashier (Stripe) Cashier (Paddle) Dusk Envoy Fortify Folio Homestead Horizon Mix Octane Passport Pennant Pint Precognition Prompts Pulse Reverb Sail Sanctum Scout Socialite Telescope Valet

### Changelog

- Routing 

 Basic Routing 

 The Default Route Files 
 Redirect Routes 
 View Routes 
 Listing Your Routes 
 Routing Customization 

 Route Parameters 

 Required Parameters 
 Optional Parameters 
 Regular Expression Constraints 

 Named Routes 
 Route Groups 

 Middleware 
 Controllers 
 Subdomain Routing 
 Route Prefixes 
 Route Name Prefixes 

 Route Model Binding 

 Implicit Binding 
 Implicit Enum Binding 
 Explicit Binding 

 Fallback Routes 
 Rate Limiting 

 Defining Rate Limiters 
 Attaching Rate Limiters to Routes 

 Form Method Spoofing 
 Accessing the Current Route 
 Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) 
 Route Caching

### Basic Routing

- The most basic Laravel routes accept a URI and a closure, providing a very simple and expressive method of defining routes and behavior without complicated routing configuration files: 

 1 use Illuminate\Support\Facades\ Route ; 2   3 Route :: get ( ' /greeting ' , function () { 4 return ' Hello World ' ; 5 }); 
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Route;

Route::get('/greeting', function () {
 return 'Hello World';
});

### The Default Route Files

- All Laravel routes are defined in your route files, which are located in the routes directory.
- These files are automatically loaded by Laravel using the configuration specified in your application's bootstrap/app.php file.
- The routes/web.php file defines routes that are for your web interface.

### Redirect Routes

- If you are defining a route that redirects to another URI, you may use the Route::redirect method.
- This method provides a convenient shortcut so that you do not have to define a full route or controller for performing a simple redirect: 

 1 Route :: redirect ( ' /here ' , ' /there ' ); 
Route::redirect('/here', '/there'); 

 By default, Route::redirect returns a 302 status code.
- You may customize the status code using the optional third parameter: 

 1 Route :: redirect ( ' /here ' , ' /there ' , 301 ); 
Route::redirect('/here', '/there', 301); 

 Or, you may use the Route::permanentRedirect method to return a 301 status code: 

 1 Route :: permanentRedirect ( ' /here ' , ' /there ' ); 
Route::permanentRedirect('/here', '/there'); 

When using route parameters in redirect routes, the following parameters are reserved by Laravel and cannot be used: destination and status .

### View Routes

- If your route only needs to return a view , you may use the Route::view method.
- Like the redirect method, this method provides a simple shortcut so that you do not have to define a full route or controller.
- The view method accepts a URI as its first argument and a view name as its second argument.

### Listing Your Routes

- The route:list Artisan command can easily provide an overview of all of the routes that are defined by your application: 

 1 php artisan route:list 
php artisan route:list 

 By default, the route middleware that are assigned to each route will not be displayed in the route:list output; however, you can instruct Laravel to display the route middleware and middleware group names by adding the -v option to the command: 

 1 php artisan route:list -v 2   3 # Expand middleware groups...
- 4 php artisan route:list -vv 
php artisan route:list -v

# Expand middleware groups...
- php artisan route:list -vv 

 You may also instruct Laravel to only show routes that begin with a given URI: 

 1 php artisan route:list --path=api 
php artisan route:list --path=api 

 In addition, you may instruct Laravel to hide any routes that are defined by third-party packages by providing the --except-vendor option when executing the route:list command: 

 1 php artisan route:list --except-vendor 
php artisan route:list --except-vendor 

 Likewise, you may also instruct Laravel to only show routes that are defined by third-party packages by providing the --only-vendor option when executing the route:list command: 

 1 php artisan route:list --only-vendor 
php artisan route:list --only-vendor

### Routing Customization

- By default, your application's routes are configured and loaded by the bootstrap/app.php file: 

 1 <?php 2   3 use Illuminate\Foundation\ Application ; 4   5 return Application :: configure (basePath: dirname ( __DIR__ )) 6 -> withRouting ( 7 web: __DIR__ .
- ' /../routes/web.php ' , 8 commands: __DIR__ .
- ' /../routes/console.php ' , 9 health: ' /up ' , 10 ) -> create (); 
<?php

use Illuminate\Foundation\Application;

return Application::configure(basePath: dirname(__DIR__))
 ->withRouting(
 web: __DIR__.'/../routes/web.php',
 commands: __DIR__.'/../routes/console.php',
 health: '/up',
 )->create(); 

 However, sometimes you may want to define an entirely new file to contain a subset of your application's routes.

### Required Parameters

- Sometimes you will need to capture segments of the URI within your route.
- For example, you may need to capture a user's ID from the URL.
- You may do so by defining route parameters: 

 1 Route :: get ( ' /user/{id} ' , function ( string $id ) { 2 return ' User ' .

### Optional Parameters

- Occasionally you may need to specify a route parameter that may not always be present in the URI.
- Make sure to give the route's corresponding variable a default value: 

 1 Route :: get ( ' /user/{name?} ' , function ( ?
- string $name = null ) { 2 return $name ; 3 }); 4   5 Route :: get ( ' /user/{name?} ' , function ( ?

### Regular Expression Constraints

- You may constrain the format of your route parameters using the where method on a route instance.
- The where method accepts the name of the parameter and a regular expression defining how the parameter should be constrained: 

 1 Route :: get ( ' /user/{name} ' , function ( string $name ) { 2 // ...
- 3 }) -> where ( ' name ' , ' [A-Za-z]+ ' ); 4   5 Route :: get ( ' /user/{id} ' , function ( string $id ) { 6 // ...

### Named Routes

- Named routes allow the convenient generation of URLs or redirects for specific routes.
- You may specify a name for a route by chaining the name method onto the route definition: 

 1 Route :: get ( ' /user/profile ' , function () { 2 // ...
- 3 }) -> name ( ' profile ' ); 
Route::get('/user/profile', function () {
 // ...

### Route Groups

- Route groups allow you to share route attributes, such as middleware, across a large number of routes without needing to define those attributes on each individual route.
- Nested groups attempt to intelligently "merge" attributes with their parent group.
- Middleware and where conditions are merged while names and prefixes are appended.

### Middleware

- To assign middleware to all routes within a group, you may use the middleware method before defining the group.
- Middleware are executed in the order they are listed in the array: 

 1 Route :: middleware ([ ' first ' , ' second ' ]) -> group ( function () { 2 Route :: get ( ' / ' , function () { 3 // Uses first & second middleware...
- 4 }); 5   6 Route :: get ( ' /user/profile ' , function () { 7 // Uses first & second middleware...

### Controllers

- If a group of routes all utilize the same controller , you may use the controller method to define the common controller for all of the routes within the group.
- Then, when defining the routes, you only need to provide the controller method that they invoke: 

 1 use App\Http\Controllers\ OrderController ; 2   3 Route :: controller ( OrderController :: class ) -> group ( function () { 4 Route :: get ( ' /orders/{id} ' , ' show ' ); 5 Route :: post ( ' /orders ' , ' store ' ); 6 }); 
use App\Http\Controllers\OrderController;

Route::controller(OrderController::class)->group(function () {
 Route::get('/orders/{id}', 'show');
 Route::post('/orders', 'store');
});

### Subdomain Routing

- Route groups may also be used to handle subdomain routing.
- Subdomains may be assigned route parameters just like route URIs, allowing you to capture a portion of the subdomain for usage in your route or controller.
- The subdomain may be specified by calling the domain method before defining the group: 

 1 Route :: domain ( ' {account}.example.com ' ) -> group ( function () { 2 Route :: get ( ' /user/{id} ' , function ( string $account , string $id ) { 3 // ...

### Route Prefixes

- The prefix method may be used to prefix each route in the group with a given URI.
- For example, you may want to prefix all route URIs within the group with admin : 

 1 Route :: prefix ( ' admin ' ) -> group ( function () { 2 Route :: get ( ' /users ' , function () { 3 // Matches The "/admin/users" URL 4 }); 5 }); 
Route::prefix('admin')->group(function () {
 Route::get('/users', function () {
 // Matches The "/admin/users" URL
 });
});

### Route Name Prefixes

- The name method may be used to prefix each route name in the group with a given string.
- For example, you may want to prefix the names of all of the routes in the group with admin .
- The given string is prefixed to the route name exactly as it is specified, so we will be sure to provide the trailing .

### Route Model Binding

- When injecting a model ID to a route or controller action, you will often query the database to retrieve the model that corresponds to that ID.
- Laravel route model binding provides a convenient way to automatically inject the model instances directly into your routes.
- For example, instead of injecting a user's ID, you can inject the entire User model instance that matches the given ID.

### Implicit Binding

- Laravel automatically resolves Eloquent models defined in routes or controller actions whose type-hinted variable names match a route segment name.
- For example: 

 1 use App\Models\ User ; 2   3 Route :: get ( ' /users/{user} ' , function ( User $user ) { 4 return $user ->email ; 5 }); 
use App\Models\User;

Route::get('/users/{user}', function (User $user) {
 return $user->email;
}); 

 Since the $user variable is type-hinted as the App\Models\User Eloquent model and the variable name matches the {user} URI segment, Laravel will automatically inject the model instance that has an ID matching the corresponding value from the request URI.
- If a matching model instance is not found in the database, a 404 HTTP response will automatically be generated.

### Implicit Enum Binding

- To complement this feature, Laravel allows you to type-hint a string-backed Enum on your route definition and Laravel will only invoke the route if that route segment corresponds to a valid Enum value.
- Otherwise, a 404 HTTP response will be returned automatically.
- For example, given the following Enum: 

 1 <?php 2   3 namespace App\Enums; 4   5 enum Category : string 6 { 7 case Fruits = ' fruits ' ; 8 case People = ' people ' ; 9 } 
<?php

namespace App\Enums;

enum Category: string
{
 case Fruits = 'fruits';
 case People = 'people';
} 

 You may define a route that will only be invoked if the {category} route segment is fruits or people .

### Explicit Binding

- You are not required to use Laravel's implicit, convention based model resolution in order to use model binding.
- You can also explicitly define how route parameters correspond to models.
- To register an explicit binding, use the router's model method to specify the class for a given parameter.

### Fallback Routes

- Using the Route::fallback method, you may define a route that will be executed when no other route matches the incoming request.
- Typically, unhandled requests will automatically render a "404" page via your application's exception handler.
- However, since you would typically define the fallback route within your routes/web.php file, all middleware in the web middleware group will apply to the route.

### Defining Rate Limiters

- Laravel includes powerful and customizable rate limiting services that you may utilize to restrict the amount of traffic for a given route or group of routes.
- To get started, you should define rate limiter configurations that meet your application's needs.
- Rate limiters may be defined within the boot method of your application's App\Providers\AppServiceProvider class: 

 1 use Illuminate\Cache\RateLimiting\ Limit ; 2 use Illuminate\Http\ Request ; 3 use Illuminate\Support\Facades\ RateLimiter ; 4   5 /** 6 * Bootstrap any application services.

### Attaching Rate Limiters to Routes

- Rate limiters may be attached to routes or route groups using the throttle middleware .
- The throttle middleware accepts the name of the rate limiter you wish to assign to the route: 

 1 Route :: middleware ([ ' throttle:uploads ' ]) -> group ( function () { 2 Route :: post ( ' /audio ' , function () { 3 // ...
- 4 }); 5   6 Route :: post ( ' /video ' , function () { 7 // ...

### Form Method Spoofing

- HTML forms do not support PUT , PATCH , or DELETE actions.
- So, when defining PUT , PATCH , or DELETE routes that are called from an HTML form, you will need to add a hidden _method field to the form.
- The value sent with the _method field will be used as the HTTP request method: 

 1 < form action = " /example " method = " POST " > 2 < input type = " hidden " name = " _method " value = " PUT " > 3 < input type = " hidden " name = " _token " value = " {{ csrf_token () }} " > 4 </ form > 
<form action="/example" method="POST">
 <input type="hidden" name="_method" value="PUT">
 <input type="hidden" name="_token" value="{{ csrf_token() }}">
</form> 

 For convenience, you may use the @method Blade directive to generate the _method input field: 

 1 < form action = " /example " method = " POST " > 2 @method ( ' PUT ' ) 3 @csrf 4 </ form > 
<form action="/example" method="POST">
 @method('PUT')
 @csrf
</form>

### Accessing the Current Route

- You may use the current , currentRouteName , and currentRouteAction methods on the Route facade to access information about the route handling the incoming request: 

 1 use Illuminate\Support\Facades\ Route ; 2   3 $route = Route :: current (); // Illuminate\Routing\Route 4 $name = Route :: currentRouteName (); // string 5 $action = Route :: currentRouteAction (); // string 
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Route;

$route = Route::current(); // Illuminate\Routing\Route
$name = Route::currentRouteName(); // string
$action = Route::currentRouteAction(); // string 

 You may refer to the API documentation for both the underlying class of the Route facade and Route instance to review all of the methods that are available on the router and route classes.

### Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)

- Laravel can automatically respond to CORS OPTIONS HTTP requests with values that you configure.
- The OPTIONS requests will automatically be handled by the HandleCors middleware that is automatically included in your application's global middleware stack.
- Sometimes, you may need to customize the CORS configuration values for your application.

### Route Caching

- When deploying your application to production, you should take advantage of Laravel's route cache.
- Using the route cache will drastically decrease the amount of time it takes to register all of your application's routes.
- To generate a route cache, execute the route:cache Artisan command: 

 1 php artisan route:cache 
php artisan route:cache 

 After running this command, your cached routes file will be loaded on every request.

---

## Code Examples

```php
1use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route;2 3Route::get('\/greeting', function () {4    return 'Hello World';5});\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route;\n\nRoute::get('\/greeting', function () {\n    return 'Hello World';\n});\n\nThe Default Route Files\nAll Laravel routes are defined in your route files, which are located in the routes directory. These files are automatically loaded by Laravel using the configuration specified in your application's bootstrap\/app.php file. The routes\/web.php file defines routes that are for your web interface. These routes are assigned the web middleware group, which provides features like session state and CSRF protection.\nFor most applications, you will begin by defining routes in your routes\/web.php file. The routes defined in routes\/web.php may be accessed by entering the defined route's URL in your browser. For example, you may access the following route by navigating to http:\/\/example.com\/user in your browser:\n\n1use App\\Http\\Controllers\\UserController;2 3Route::get('\/user', [UserController::class, 'index']);\nuse App\\Http\\Controllers\\UserController;\n\nRoute::get('\/user', [UserController::class, 'index']);\n\nAPI Routes\nIf your application will also offer a stateless API, you may enable API routing using the install:api Artisan command:\n\n1php artisan install:api\nphp artisan install:api\n\nThe install:api command installs Laravel Sanctum, which provides a robust, yet simple API token authentication guard which can be used to authenticate third-party API consumers, SPAs, or mobile applications. In addition, the install:api command creates the routes\/api.php file:\n\n1Route::get('\/user', function (Request $request) {2    return $request->user();3})->middleware('auth:sanctum');\nRoute::get('\/user', function (Request $request) {\n    return $request->user();\n})->middleware('auth:sanctum');\n\nOf course, you are free to omit the auth:sanctum middleware on routes that should be publicly accessible.\nThe routes in routes\/api.php are stateless and are assigned to the api middleware group. Additionally, the \/api URI prefix is automatically applied to these routes, so you do not need to manually apply it to every route in the file. You may change the prefix by modifying your application's bootstrap\/app.php file:\n\n1->withRouting(2    api: __DIR__.'\/..\/routes\/api.php',3    apiPrefix: 'api\/admin',4    \/\/ ...5)\n->withRouting(\n    api: __DIR__.'\/..\/routes\/api.php',\n    apiPrefix: 'api\/admin',\n    \/\/ ...\n)\n\nAvailable Router Methods\nThe router allows you to register routes that respond to any HTTP verb:\n\n1Route::get($uri, $callback);2Route::post($uri, $callback);3Route::put($uri, $callback);4Route::patch($uri, $callback);5Route::delete($uri, $callback);6Route::options($uri, $callback);\nRoute::get($uri, $callback);\nRoute::post($uri, $callback);\nRoute::put($uri, $callback);\nRoute::patch($uri, $callback);\nRoute::delete($uri, $callback);\nRoute::options($uri, $callback);\n\nSometimes you may need to register a route that responds to multiple HTTP verbs. You may do so using the match method. Or, you may even register a route that responds to all HTTP verbs using the any method:\n\n1Route::match(['get', 'post'], '\/', function () {2    \/\/ ...3});4 5Route::any('\/', function () {6    \/\/ ...7});\nRoute::match(['get', 'post'], '\/', function () {\n    \/\/ ...\n});\n\nRoute::any('\/', function () {\n    \/\/ ...\n});\n\n\n    \n        \n\n\n\n    \n    \nWhen defining multiple routes that share the same URI, routes using the get, post, put, patch, delete, and options methods should be defined before routes using the any, match, and redirect methods. This ensures the incoming request is matched with the correct route.\n\nDependency Injection\nYou may type-hint any dependencies required by your route in your route's callback signature. The declared dependencies will automatically be resolved and injected into the callback by the Laravel service container. For example, you may type-hint the Illuminate\\Http\\Request class to have the current HTTP request automatically injected into your route callback:\n\n1use Illuminate\\Http\\Request;2 3Route::get('\/users', function (Request $request) {4    \/\/ ...5});\nuse Illuminate\\Http\\Request;\n\nRoute::get('\/users', function (Request $request) {\n    \/\/ ...\n});\n\nCSRF Protection\nRemember, any HTML forms pointing to POST, PUT, PATCH, or DELETE routes that are defined in the web routes file should include a CSRF token field. Otherwise, the request will be rejected. You can read more about CSRF protection in the CSRF documentation:\n\n1<form method="POST" action="\/profile">2    @csrf3    ...4<\/form>\n<form method="POST" action="\/profile">\n    @csrf\n    ...\n<\/form>\n\nRedirect Routes\nIf you are defining a route that redirects to another URI, you may use the Route::redirect method. This method provides a convenient shortcut so that you do not have to define a full route or controller for performing a simple redirect:\n\n1Route::redirect('\/here', '\/there');\nRoute::redirect('\/here', '\/there');\n\nBy default, Route::redirect returns a 302 status code. You may customize the status code using the optional third parameter:\n\n1Route::redirect('\/here', '\/there', 301);\nRoute::redirect('\/here', '\/there', 301);\n\nOr, you may use the Route::permanentRedirect method to return a 301 status code:\n\n1Route::permanentRedirect('\/here', '\/there');\nRoute::permanentRedirect('\/here', '\/there');\n\n\n    \n        \n\n\n\n    \n    \nWhen using route parameters in redirect routes, the following parameters are reserved by Laravel and cannot be used: destination and status.\n\nView Routes\nIf your route only needs to return a view, you may use the Route::view method. Like the redirect method, this method provides a simple shortcut so that you do not have to define a full route or controller. The view method accepts a URI as its first argument and a view name as its second argument. In addition, you may provide an array of data to pass to the view as an optional third argument:\n\n1Route::view('\/welcome', 'welcome');2 3Route::view('\/welcome', 'welcome', ['name' => 'Taylor']);\nRoute::view('\/welcome', 'welcome');\n\nRoute::view('\/welcome', 'welcome', ['name' => 'Taylor']);\n\n\n    \n        \n\n\n\n    \n    \nWhen using route parameters in view routes, the following parameters are reserved by Laravel and cannot be used: view, data, status, and headers.\n\nListing Your Routes\nThe route:list Artisan command can easily provide an overview of all of the routes that are defined by your application:\n\n1php artisan route:list\nphp artisan route:list\n\nBy default, the route middleware that are assigned to each route will not be displayed in the route:list output; however, you can instruct Laravel to display the route middleware and middleware group names by adding the -v option to the command:\n\n1php artisan route:list -v2 3# Expand middleware groups...4php artisan route:list -vv\nphp artisan route:list -v\n\n# Expand middleware groups...\nphp artisan route:list -vv\n\nYou may also instruct Laravel to only show routes that begin with a given URI:\n\n1php artisan route:list --path=api\nphp artisan route:list --path=api\n\nIn addition, you may instruct Laravel to hide any routes that are defined by third-party packages by providing the --except-vendor option when executing the route:list command:\n\n1php artisan route:list --except-vendor\nphp artisan route:list --except-vendor\n\nLikewise, you may also instruct Laravel to only show routes that are defined by third-party packages by providing the --only-vendor option when executing the route:list command:\n\n1php artisan route:list --only-vendor\nphp artisan route:list --only-vendor\n\nRouting Customization\nBy default, your application's routes are configured and loaded by the bootstrap\/app.php file:\n\n 1<?php 2  3use Illuminate\\Foundation\\Application; 4  5return Application::configure(basePath: dirname(__DIR__)) 6    ->withRouting( 7        web: __DIR__.'\/..\/routes\/web.php', 8        commands: __DIR__.'\/..\/routes\/console.php', 9        health: '\/up',10    )->create();\n<?php\n\nuse Illuminate\\Foundation\\Application;\n\nreturn Application::configure(basePath: dirname(__DIR__))\n    ->withRouting(\n        web: __DIR__.'\/..\/routes\/web.php',\n        commands: __DIR__.'\/..\/routes\/console.php',\n        health: '\/up',\n    )->create();\n\nHowever, sometimes you may want to define an entirely new file to contain a subset of your application's routes. To accomplish this, you may provide a then closure to the withRouting method. Within this closure, you may register any additional routes that are necessary for your application:\n\n 1use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route; 2  3->withRouting( 4    web: __DIR__.'\/..\/routes\/web.php', 5    commands: __DIR__.'\/..\/routes\/console.php', 6    health: '\/up', 7    then: function () { 8        Route::middleware('api') 9            ->prefix('webhooks')10            ->name('webhooks.')11            ->group(base_path('routes\/webhooks.php'));12    },13)\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route;\n\n->withRouting(\n    web: __DIR__.'\/..\/routes\/web.php',\n    commands: __DIR__.'\/..\/routes\/console.php',\n    health: '\/up',\n    then: function () {\n        Route::middleware('api')\n            ->prefix('webhooks')\n            ->name('webhooks.')\n            ->group(base_path('routes\/webhooks.php'));\n    },\n)\n\nOr, you may even take complete control over route registration by providing a using closure to the withRouting method. When this argument is passed, no HTTP routes will be registered by the framework and you are responsible for manually registering all routes:\n\n 1use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route; 2  3->withRouting( 4    commands: __DIR__.'\/..\/routes\/console.php', 5    using: function () { 6        Route::middleware('api') 7            ->prefix('api') 8            ->group(base_path('routes\/api.php')); 9 10        Route::middleware('web')11            ->group(base_path('routes\/web.php'));12    },13)\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route;\n\n->withRouting(\n    commands: __DIR__.'\/..\/routes\/console.php',\n    using: function () {\n        Route::middleware('api')\n            ->prefix('api')\n            ->group(base_path('routes\/api.php'));\n\n        Route::middleware('web')\n            ->group(base_path('routes\/web.php'));\n    },\n)\n\nRoute Parameters\nRequired Parameters\nSometimes you will need to capture segments of the URI within your route. For example, you may need to capture a user's ID from the URL. You may do so by defining route parameters:\n\n1Route::get('\/user\/{id}', function (string $id) {2    return 'User '.$id;3});\nRoute::get('\/user\/{id}', function (string $id) {\n    return 'User '.$id;\n});\n\nYou may define as many route parameters as required by your route:\n\n1Route::get('\/posts\/{post}\/comments\/{comment}', function (string $postId, string $commentId) {2    \/\/ ...3});\nRoute::get('\/posts\/{post}\/comments\/{comment}', function (string $postId, string $commentId) {\n    \/\/ ...\n});\n\nRoute parameters are always encased within {} braces and should consist of alphabetic characters. Underscores (_) are also acceptable within route parameter names. Route parameters are injected into route callbacks \/ controllers based on their order - the names of the route callback \/ controller arguments do not matter.\nParameters and Dependency Injection\nIf your route has dependencies that you would like the Laravel service container to automatically inject into your route's callback, you should list your route parameters after your dependencies:\n\n1use Illuminate\\Http\\Request;2 3Route::get('\/user\/{id}', function (Request $request, string $id) {4    return 'User '.$id;5});\nuse Illuminate\\Http\\Request;\n\nRoute::get('\/user\/{id}', function (Request $request, string $id) {\n    return 'User '.$id;\n});\n\nOptional Parameters\nOccasionally you may need to specify a route parameter that may not always be present in the URI. You may do so by placing a ? mark after the parameter name. Make sure to give the route's corresponding variable a default value:\n\n1Route::get('\/user\/{name?}', function (?string $name = null) {2    return $name;3});4 5Route::get('\/user\/{name?}', function (?string $name = 'John') {6    return $name;7});\nRoute::get('\/user\/{name?}', function (?string $name = null) {\n    return $name;\n});\n\nRoute::get('\/user\/{name?}', function (?string $name = 'John') {\n    return $name;\n});\n\nRegular Expression Constraints\nYou may constrain the format of your route parameters using the where method on a route instance. The where method accepts the name of the parameter and a regular expression defining how the parameter should be constrained:\n\n 1Route::get('\/user\/{name}', function (string $name) { 2    \/\/ ... 3})->where('name', '[A-Za-z]+'); 4  5Route::get('\/user\/{id}', function (string $id) { 6    \/\/ ... 7})->where('id', '[0-9]+'); 8  9Route::get('\/user\/{id}\/{name}', function (string $id, string $name) {10    \/\/ ...11})->where(['id' => '[0-9]+', 'name' => '[a-z]+']);\nRoute::get('\/user\/{name}', function (string $name) {\n    \/\/ ...\n})->where('name', '[A-Za-z]+');\n\nRoute::get('\/user\/{id}', function (string $id) {\n    \/\/ ...\n})->where('id', '[0-9]+');\n\nRoute::get('\/user\/{id}\/{name}', function (string $id, string $name) {\n    \/\/ ...\n})->where(['id' => '[0-9]+', 'name' => '[a-z]+']);\n\nFor convenience, some commonly used regular expression patterns have helper methods that allow you to quickly add pattern constraints to your routes:\n\n 1Route::get('\/user\/{id}\/{name}', function (string $id, string $name) { 2    \/\/ ... 3})->whereNumber('id')->whereAlpha('name'); 4  5Route::get('\/user\/{name}', function (string $name) { 6    \/\/ ... 7})->whereAlphaNumeric('name'); 8  9Route::get('\/user\/{id}', function (string $id) {10    \/\/ ...11})->whereUuid('id');12 13Route::get('\/user\/{id}', function (string $id) {14    \/\/ ...15})->whereUlid('id');16 17Route::get('\/category\/{category}', function (string $category) {18    \/\/ ...19})->whereIn('category', ['movie', 'song', 'painting']);20 21Route::get('\/category\/{category}', function (string $category) {22    \/\/ ...23})->whereIn('category', CategoryEnum::cases());\nRoute::get('\/user\/{id}\/{name}', function (string $id, string $name) {\n    \/\/ ...\n})->whereNumber('id')->whereAlpha('name');\n\nRoute::get('\/user\/{name}', function (string $name) {\n    \/\/ ...\n})->whereAlphaNumeric('name');\n\nRoute::get('\/user\/{id}', function (string $id) {\n    \/\/ ...\n})->whereUuid('id');\n\nRoute::get('\/user\/{id}', function (string $id) {\n    \/\/ ...\n})->whereUlid('id');\n\nRoute::get('\/category\/{category}', function (string $category) {\n    \/\/ ...\n})->whereIn('category', ['movie', 'song', 'painting']);\n\nRoute::get('\/category\/{category}', function (string $category) {\n    \/\/ ...\n})->whereIn('category', CategoryEnum::cases());\n\nIf the incoming request does not match the route pattern constraints, a 404 HTTP response will be returned.\nGlobal Constraints\nIf you would like a route parameter to always be constrained by a given regular expression, you may use the pattern method. You should define these patterns in the boot method of your application's App\\Providers\\AppServiceProvider class:\n\n1use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route;2 3\/**4 * Bootstrap any application services.5 *\/6public function boot(): void7{8    Route::pattern('id', '[0-9]+');9}\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route;\n\n\/**\n * Bootstrap any application services.\n *\/\npublic function boot(): void\n{\n    Route::pattern('id', '[0-9]+');\n}\n\nOnce the pattern has been defined, it is automatically applied to all routes using that parameter name:\n\n1Route::get('\/user\/{id}', function (string $id) {2    \/\/ Only executed if {id} is numeric...3});\nRoute::get('\/user\/{id}', function (string $id) {\n    \/\/ Only executed if {id} is numeric...\n});\n\nEncoded Forward Slashes\nThe Laravel routing component allows all characters except \/ to be present within route parameter values. You must explicitly allow \/ to be part of your placeholder using a where condition regular expression:\n\n1Route::get('\/search\/{search}', function (string $search) {2    return $search;3})->where('search', '.*');\nRoute::get('\/search\/{search}', function (string $search) {\n    return $search;\n})->where('search', '.*');\n\n\n    \n        \n\n\n\n    \n    \nEncoded forward slashes are only supported within the last route segment.\n\nNamed Routes\nNamed routes allow the convenient generation of URLs or redirects for specific routes. You may specify a name for a route by chaining the name method onto the route definition:\n\n1Route::get('\/user\/profile', function () {2    \/\/ ...3})->name('profile');\nRoute::get('\/user\/profile', function () {\n    \/\/ ...\n})->name('profile');\n\nYou may also specify route names for controller actions:\n\n1Route::get(2    '\/user\/profile',3    [UserProfileController::class, 'show']4)->name('profile');\nRoute::get(\n    '\/user\/profile',\n    [UserProfileController::class, 'show']\n)->name('profile');\n\n\n    \n        \n\n\n\n    \n    \nRoute names should always be unique.\n\nGenerating URLs to Named Routes\nOnce you have assigned a name to a given route, you may use the route's name when generating URLs or redirects via Laravel's route and redirect helper functions:\n\n1\/\/ Generating URLs...2$url = route('profile');3 4\/\/ Generating Redirects...5return redirect()->route('profile');6 7return to_route('profile');\n\/\/ Generating URLs...\n$url = route('profile');\n\n\/\/ Generating Redirects...\nreturn redirect()->route('profile');\n\nreturn to_route('profile');\n\nIf the named route defines parameters, you may pass the parameters as the second argument to the route function. The given parameters will automatically be inserted into the generated URL in their correct positions:\n\n1Route::get('\/user\/{id}\/profile', function (string $id) {2    \/\/ ...3})->name('profile');4 5$url = route('profile', ['id' => 1]);\nRoute::get('\/user\/{id}\/profile', function (string $id) {\n    \/\/ ...\n})->name('profile');\n\n$url = route('profile', ['id' => 1]);\n\nIf you pass additional parameters in the array, those key \/ value pairs will automatically be added to the generated URL's query string:\n\n1Route::get('\/user\/{id}\/profile', function (string $id) {2    \/\/ ...3})->name('profile');4 5$url = route('profile', ['id' => 1, 'photos' => 'yes']);6 7\/\/ http:\/\/example.com\/user\/1\/profile?photos=yes\nRoute::get('\/user\/{id}\/profile', function (string $id) {\n    \/\/ ...\n})->name('profile');\n\n$url = route('profile', ['id' => 1, 'photos' => 'yes']);\n\n\/\/ http:\/\/example.com\/user\/1\/profile?photos=yes\n\n\n    \n        \n\n\n\n    \n    \nSometimes, you may wish to specify request-wide default values for URL parameters, such as the current locale. To accomplish this, you may use the URL::defaults method.\n\nInspecting the Current Route\nIf you would like to determine if the current request was routed to a given named route, you may use the named method on a Route instance. For example, you may check the current route name from a route middleware:\n\n 1use Closure; 2use Illuminate\\Http\\Request; 3use Symfony\\Component\\HttpFoundation\\Response; 4  5\/** 6 * Handle an incoming request. 7 * 8 * @param  \\Closure(\\Illuminate\\Http\\Request): (\\Symfony\\Component\\HttpFoundation\\Response)  $next 9 *\/10public function handle(Request $request, Closure $next): Response11{12    if ($request->route()->named('profile')) {13        \/\/ ...14    }15 16    return $next($request);17}\nuse Closure;\nuse Illuminate\\Http\\Request;\nuse Symfony\\Component\\HttpFoundation\\Response;\n\n\/**\n * Handle an incoming request.\n *\n * @param  \\Closure(\\Illuminate\\Http\\Request): (\\Symfony\\Component\\HttpFoundation\\Response)  $next\n *\/\npublic function handle(Request $request, Closure $next): Response\n{\n    if ($request->route()->named('profile')) {\n        \/\/ ...\n    }\n\n    return $next($request);\n}\n\nRoute Groups\nRoute groups allow you to share route attributes, such as middleware, across a large number of routes without needing to define those attributes on each individual route.\nNested groups attempt to intelligently "merge" attributes with their parent group. Middleware and where conditions are merged while names and prefixes are appended. Namespace delimiters and slashes in URI prefixes are automatically added where appropriate.\nMiddleware\nTo assign middleware to all routes within a group, you may use the middleware method before defining the group. Middleware are executed in the order they are listed in the array:\n\n1Route::middleware(['first', 'second'])->group(function () {2    Route::get('\/', function () {3        \/\/ Uses first & second middleware...4    });5 6    Route::get('\/user\/profile', function () {7        \/\/ Uses first & second middleware...8    });9});\nRoute::middleware(['first', 'second'])->group(function () {\n    Route::get('\/', function () {\n        \/\/ Uses first & second middleware...\n    });\n\n    Route::get('\/user\/profile', function () {\n        \/\/ Uses first & second middleware...\n    });\n});\n\nControllers\nIf a group of routes all utilize the same controller, you may use the controller method to define the common controller for all of the routes within the group. Then, when defining the routes, you only need to provide the controller method that they invoke:\n\n1use App\\Http\\Controllers\\OrderController;2 3Route::controller(OrderController::class)->group(function () {4    Route::get('\/orders\/{id}', 'show');5    Route::post('\/orders', 'store');6});\nuse App\\Http\\Controllers\\OrderController;\n\nRoute::controller(OrderController::class)->group(function () {\n    Route::get('\/orders\/{id}', 'show');\n    Route::post('\/orders', 'store');\n});\n\nSubdomain Routing\nRoute groups may also be used to handle subdomain routing. Subdomains may be assigned route parameters just like route URIs, allowing you to capture a portion of the subdomain for usage in your route or controller. The subdomain may be specified by calling the domain method before defining the group:\n\n1Route::domain('{account}.example.com')->group(function () {2    Route::get('\/user\/{id}', function (string $account, string $id) {3        \/\/ ...4    });5});\nRoute::domain('{account}.example.com')->group(function () {\n    Route::get('\/user\/{id}', function (string $account, string $id) {\n        \/\/ ...\n    });\n});\n\nRoute Prefixes\nThe prefix method may be used to prefix each route in the group with a given URI. For example, you may want to prefix all route URIs within the group with admin:\n\n1Route::prefix('admin')->group(function () {2    Route::get('\/users', function () {3        \/\/ Matches The "\/admin\/users" URL4    });5});\nRoute::prefix('admin')->group(function () {\n    Route::get('\/users', function () {\n        \/\/ Matches The "\/admin\/users" URL\n    });\n});\n\nRoute Name Prefixes\nThe name method may be used to prefix each route name in the group with a given string. For example, you may want to prefix the names of all of the routes in the group with admin. The given string is prefixed to the route name exactly as it is specified, so we will be sure to provide the trailing . character in the prefix:\n\n1Route::name('admin.')->group(function () {2    Route::get('\/users', function () {3        \/\/ Route assigned name "admin.users"...4    })->name('users');5});\nRoute::name('admin.')->group(function () {\n    Route::get('\/users', function () {\n        \/\/ Route assigned name "admin.users"...\n    })->name('users');\n});\n\nRoute Model Binding\nWhen injecting a model ID to a route or controller action, you will often query the database to retrieve the model that corresponds to that ID. Laravel route model binding provides a convenient way to automatically inject the model instances directly into your routes. For example, instead of injecting a user's ID, you can inject the entire User model instance that matches the given ID.\nImplicit Binding\nLaravel automatically resolves Eloquent models defined in routes or controller actions whose type-hinted variable names match a route segment name. For example:\n\n1use App\\Models\\User;2 3Route::get('\/users\/{user}', function (User $user) {4    return $user->email;5});\nuse App\\Models\\User;\n\nRoute::get('\/users\/{user}', function (User $user) {\n    return $user->email;\n});\n\nSince the $user variable is type-hinted as the App\\Models\\User Eloquent model and the variable name matches the {user} URI segment, Laravel will automatically inject the model instance that has an ID matching the corresponding value from the request URI. If a matching model instance is not found in the database, a 404 HTTP response will automatically be generated.\nOf course, implicit binding is also possible when using controller methods. Again, note the {user} URI segment matches the $user variable in the controller which contains an App\\Models\\User type-hint:\n\n 1use App\\Http\\Controllers\\UserController; 2use App\\Models\\User; 3  4\/\/ Route definition... 5Route::get('\/users\/{user}', [UserController::class, 'show']); 6  7\/\/ Controller method definition... 8public function show(User $user) 9{10    return view('user.profile', ['user' => $user]);11}\nuse App\\Http\\Controllers\\UserController;\nuse App\\Models\\User;\n\n\/\/ Route definition...\nRoute::get('\/users\/{user}', [UserController::class, 'show']);\n\n\/\/ Controller method definition...\npublic function show(User $user)\n{\n    return view('user.profile', ['user' => $user]);\n}\n\nSoft Deleted Models\nTypically, implicit model binding will not retrieve models that have been soft deleted. However, you may instruct the implicit binding to retrieve these models by chaining the withTrashed method onto your route's definition:\n\n1use App\\Models\\User;2 3Route::get('\/users\/{user}', function (User $user) {4    return $user->email;5})->withTrashed();\nuse App\\Models\\User;\n\nRoute::get('\/users\/{user}', function (User $user) {\n    return $user->email;\n})->withTrashed();\n\nCustomizing the Key\nSometimes you may wish to resolve Eloquent models using a column other than id. To do so, you may specify the column in the route parameter definition:\n\n1use App\\Models\\Post;2 3Route::get('\/posts\/{post:slug}', function (Post $post) {4    return $post;5});\nuse App\\Models\\Post;\n\nRoute::get('\/posts\/{post:slug}', function (Post $post) {\n    return $post;\n});\n\nIf you would like model binding to always use a database column other than id when retrieving a given model class, you may override the getRouteKeyName method on the Eloquent model:\n\n1\/**2 * Get the route key for the model.3 *\/4public function getRouteKeyName(): string5{6    return 'slug';7}\n\/**\n * Get the route key for the model.\n *\/\npublic function getRouteKeyName(): string\n{\n    return 'slug';\n}\n\nCustom Keys and Scoping\nWhen implicitly binding multiple Eloquent models in a single route definition, you may wish to scope the second Eloquent model such that it must be a child of the previous Eloquent model. For example, consider this route definition that retrieves a blog post by slug for a specific user:\n\n1use App\\Models\\Post;2use App\\Models\\User;3 4Route::get('\/users\/{user}\/posts\/{post:slug}', function (User $user, Post $post) {5    return $post;6});\nuse App\\Models\\Post;\nuse App\\Models\\User;\n\nRoute::get('\/users\/{user}\/posts\/{post:slug}', function (User $user, Post $post) {\n    return $post;\n});\n\nWhen using a custom keyed implicit binding as a nested route parameter, Laravel will automatically scope the query to retrieve the nested model by its parent using conventions to guess the relationship name on the parent. In this case, it will be assumed that the User model has a relationship named posts (the plural form of the route parameter name) which can be used to retrieve the Post model.\nIf you wish, you may instruct Laravel to scope "child" bindings even when a custom key is not provided. To do so, you may invoke the scopeBindings method when defining your route:\n\n1use App\\Models\\Post;2use App\\Models\\User;3 4Route::get('\/users\/{user}\/posts\/{post}', function (User $user, Post $post) {5    return $post;6})->scopeBindings();\nuse App\\Models\\Post;\nuse App\\Models\\User;\n\nRoute::get('\/users\/{user}\/posts\/{post}', function (User $user, Post $post) {\n    return $post;\n})->scopeBindings();\n\nOr, you may instruct an entire group of route definitions to use scoped bindings:\n\n1Route::scopeBindings()->group(function () {2    Route::get('\/users\/{user}\/posts\/{post}', function (User $user, Post $post) {3        return $post;4    });5});\nRoute::scopeBindings()->group(function () {\n    Route::get('\/users\/{user}\/posts\/{post}', function (User $user, Post $post) {\n        return $post;\n    });\n});\n\nSimilarly, you may explicitly instruct Laravel to not scope bindings by invoking the withoutScopedBindings method:\n\n1Route::get('\/users\/{user}\/posts\/{post:slug}', function (User $user, Post $post) {2    return $post;3})->withoutScopedBindings();\nRoute::get('\/users\/{user}\/posts\/{post:slug}', function (User $user, Post $post) {\n    return $post;\n})->withoutScopedBindings();\n\nCustomizing Missing Model Behavior\nTypically, a 404 HTTP response will be generated if an implicitly bound model is not found. However, you may customize this behavior by calling the missing method when defining your route. The missing method accepts a closure that will be invoked if an implicitly bound model cannot be found:\n\n1use App\\Http\\Controllers\\LocationsController;2use Illuminate\\Http\\Request;3use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Redirect;4 5Route::get('\/locations\/{location:slug}', [LocationsController::class, 'show'])6    ->name('locations.view')7    ->missing(function (Request $request) {8        return Redirect::route('locations.index');9    });\nuse App\\Http\\Controllers\\LocationsController;\nuse Illuminate\\Http\\Request;\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Redirect;\n\nRoute::get('\/locations\/{location:slug}', [LocationsController::class, 'show'])\n    ->name('locations.view')\n    ->missing(function (Request $request) {\n        return Redirect::route('locations.index');\n    });\n\nImplicit Enum Binding\nPHP 8.1 introduced support for Enums. To complement this feature, Laravel allows you to type-hint a string-backed Enum on your route definition and Laravel will only invoke the route if that route segment corresponds to a valid Enum value. Otherwise, a 404 HTTP response will be returned automatically. For example, given the following Enum:\n\n1<?php2 3namespace App\\Enums;4 5enum Category: string6{7    case Fruits = 'fruits';8    case People = 'people';9}\n<?php\n\nnamespace App\\Enums;\n\nenum Category: string\n{\n    case Fruits = 'fruits';\n    case People = 'people';\n}\n\nYou may define a route that will only be invoked if the {category} route segment is fruits or people. Otherwise, Laravel will return a 404 HTTP response:\n\n1use App\\Enums\\Category;2use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route;3 4Route::get('\/categories\/{category}', function (Category $category) {5    return $category->value;6});\nuse App\\Enums\\Category;\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route;\n\nRoute::get('\/categories\/{category}', function (Category $category) {\n    return $category->value;\n});\n\nExplicit Binding\nYou are not required to use Laravel's implicit, convention based model resolution in order to use model binding. You can also explicitly define how route parameters correspond to models. To register an explicit binding, use the router's model method to specify the class for a given parameter. You should define your explicit model bindings at the beginning of the boot method of your AppServiceProvider class:\n\n 1use App\\Models\\User; 2use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route; 3  4\/** 5 * Bootstrap any application services. 6 *\/ 7public function boot(): void 8{ 9    Route::model('user', User::class);10}\nuse App\\Models\\User;\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route;\n\n\/**\n * Bootstrap any application services.\n *\/\npublic function boot(): void\n{\n    Route::model('user', User::class);\n}\n\nNext, define a route that contains a {user} parameter:\n\n1use App\\Models\\User;2 3Route::get('\/users\/{user}', function (User $user) {4    \/\/ ...5});\nuse App\\Models\\User;\n\nRoute::get('\/users\/{user}', function (User $user) {\n    \/\/ ...\n});\n\nSince we have bound all {user} parameters to the App\\Models\\User model, an instance of that class will be injected into the route. So, for example, a request to users\/1 will inject the User instance from the database which has an ID of 1.\nIf a matching model instance is not found in the database, a 404 HTTP response will be automatically generated.\nCustomizing the Resolution Logic\nIf you wish to define your own model binding resolution logic, you may use the Route::bind method. The closure you pass to the bind method will receive the value of the URI segment and should return the instance of the class that should be injected into the route. Again, this customization should take place in the boot method of your application's AppServiceProvider:\n\n 1use App\\Models\\User; 2use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route; 3  4\/** 5 * Bootstrap any application services. 6 *\/ 7public function boot(): void 8{ 9    Route::bind('user', function (string $value) {10        return User::where('name', $value)->firstOrFail();11    });12}\nuse App\\Models\\User;\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route;\n\n\/**\n * Bootstrap any application services.\n *\/\npublic function boot(): void\n{\n    Route::bind('user', function (string $value) {\n        return User::where('name', $value)->firstOrFail();\n    });\n}\n\nAlternatively, you may override the resolveRouteBinding method on your Eloquent model. This method will receive the value of the URI segment and should return the instance of the class that should be injected into the route:\n\n 1\/** 2 * Retrieve the model for a bound value. 3 * 4 * @param  mixed  $value 5 * @param  string|null  $field 6 * @return \\Illuminate\\Database\\Eloquent\\Model|null 7 *\/ 8public function resolveRouteBinding($value, $field = null) 9{10    return $this->where('name', $value)->firstOrFail();11}\n\/**\n * Retrieve the model for a bound value.\n *\n * @param  mixed  $value\n * @param  string|null  $field\n * @return \\Illuminate\\Database\\Eloquent\\Model|null\n *\/\npublic function resolveRouteBinding($value, $field = null)\n{\n    return $this->where('name', $value)->firstOrFail();\n}\n\nIf a route is utilizing implicit binding scoping, the resolveChildRouteBinding method will be used to resolve the child binding of the parent model:\n\n 1\/** 2 * Retrieve the child model for a bound value. 3 * 4 * @param  string  $childType 5 * @param  mixed  $value 6 * @param  string|null  $field 7 * @return \\Illuminate\\Database\\Eloquent\\Model|null 8 *\/ 9public function resolveChildRouteBinding($childType, $value, $field)10{11    return parent::resolveChildRouteBinding($childType, $value, $field);12}\n\/**\n * Retrieve the child model for a bound value.\n *\n * @param  string  $childType\n * @param  mixed  $value\n * @param  string|null  $field\n * @return \\Illuminate\\Database\\Eloquent\\Model|null\n *\/\npublic function resolveChildRouteBinding($childType, $value, $field)\n{\n    return parent::resolveChildRouteBinding($childType, $value, $field);\n}\n\nFallback Routes\nUsing the Route::fallback method, you may define a route that will be executed when no other route matches the incoming request. Typically, unhandled requests will automatically render a "404" page via your application's exception handler. However, since you would typically define the fallback route within your routes\/web.php file, all middleware in the web middleware group will apply to the route. You are free to add additional middleware to this route as needed:\n\n1Route::fallback(function () {2    \/\/ ...3});\nRoute::fallback(function () {\n    \/\/ ...\n});\n\nRate Limiting\nDefining Rate Limiters\nLaravel includes powerful and customizable rate limiting services that you may utilize to restrict the amount of traffic for a given route or group of routes. To get started, you should define rate limiter configurations that meet your application's needs.\nRate limiters may be defined within the boot method of your application's App\\Providers\\AppServiceProvider class:\n\n 1use Illuminate\\Cache\\RateLimiting\\Limit; 2use Illuminate\\Http\\Request; 3use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\RateLimiter; 4  5\/** 6 * Bootstrap any application services. 7 *\/ 8public function boot(): void 9{10    RateLimiter::for('api', function (Request $request) {11        return Limit::perMinute(60)->by($request->user()?->id ?: $request->ip());12    });13}\nuse Illuminate\\Cache\\RateLimiting\\Limit;\nuse Illuminate\\Http\\Request;\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\RateLimiter;\n\n\/**\n * Bootstrap any application services.\n *\/\npublic function boot(): void\n{\n    RateLimiter::for('api', function (Request $request) {\n        return Limit::perMinute(60)->by($request->user()?->id ?: $request->ip());\n    });\n}\n\nRate limiters are defined using the RateLimiter facade's for method. The for method accepts a rate limiter name and a closure that returns the limit configuration that should apply to routes that are assigned to the rate limiter. Limit configuration are instances of the Illuminate\\Cache\\RateLimiting\\Limit class. This class contains helpful "builder" methods so that you can quickly define your limit. The rate limiter name may be any string you wish:\n\n 1use Illuminate\\Cache\\RateLimiting\\Limit; 2use Illuminate\\Http\\Request; 3use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\RateLimiter; 4  5\/** 6 * Bootstrap any application services. 7 *\/ 8public function boot(): void 9{10    RateLimiter::for('global', function (Request $request) {11        return Limit::perMinute(1000);12    });13}\nuse Illuminate\\Cache\\RateLimiting\\Limit;\nuse Illuminate\\Http\\Request;\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\RateLimiter;\n\n\/**\n * Bootstrap any application services.\n *\/\npublic function boot(): void\n{\n    RateLimiter::for('global', function (Request $request) {\n        return Limit::perMinute(1000);\n    });\n}\n\nIf the incoming request exceeds the specified rate limit, a response with a 429 HTTP status code will automatically be returned by Laravel. If you would like to define your own response that should be returned by a rate limit, you may use the response method:\n\n1RateLimiter::for('global', function (Request $request) {2    return Limit::perMinute(1000)->response(function (Request $request, array $headers) {3        return response('Custom response...', 429, $headers);4    });5});\nRateLimiter::for('global', function (Request $request) {\n    return Limit::perMinute(1000)->response(function (Request $request, array $headers) {\n        return response('Custom response...', 429, $headers);\n    });\n});\n\nSince rate limiter callbacks receive the incoming HTTP request instance, you may build the appropriate rate limit dynamically based on the incoming request or authenticated user:\n\n1RateLimiter::for('uploads', function (Request $request) {2    return $request->user()?->vipCustomer()3        ? Limit::none()4        : Limit::perHour(10);5});\nRateLimiter::for('uploads', function (Request $request) {\n    return $request->user()?->vipCustomer()\n        ? Limit::none()\n        : Limit::perHour(10);\n});\n\nSegmenting Rate Limits\nSometimes you may wish to segment rate limits by some arbitrary value. For example, you may wish to allow users to access a given route 100 times per minute per IP address. To accomplish this, you may use the by method when building your rate limit:\n\n1RateLimiter::for('uploads', function (Request $request) {2    return $request->user()->vipCustomer()3        ? Limit::none()4        : Limit::perMinute(100)->by($request->ip());5});\nRateLimiter::for('uploads', function (Request $request) {\n    return $request->user()->vipCustomer()\n        ? Limit::none()\n        : Limit::perMinute(100)->by($request->ip());\n});\n\nTo illustrate this feature using another example, we can limit access to the route to 100 times per minute per authenticated user ID or 10 times per minute per IP address for guests:\n\n1RateLimiter::for('uploads', function (Request $request) {2    return $request->user()3        ? Limit::perMinute(100)->by($request->user()->id)4        : Limit::perMinute(10)->by($request->ip());5});\nRateLimiter::for('uploads', function (Request $request) {\n    return $request->user()\n        ? Limit::perMinute(100)->by($request->user()->id)\n        : Limit::perMinute(10)->by($request->ip());\n});\n\nMultiple Rate Limits\nIf needed, you may return an array of rate limits for a given rate limiter configuration. Each rate limit will be evaluated for the route based on the order they are placed within the array:\n\n1RateLimiter::for('login', function (Request $request) {2    return [3        Limit::perMinute(500),4        Limit::perMinute(3)->by($request->input('email')),5    ];6});\nRateLimiter::for('login', function (Request $request) {\n    return [\n        Limit::perMinute(500),\n        Limit::perMinute(3)->by($request->input('email')),\n    ];\n});\n\nIf you're assigning multiple rate limits segmented by identical by values, you should ensure that each by value is unique. The easiest way to achieve this is to prefix the values given to the by method:\n\n1RateLimiter::for('uploads', function (Request $request) {2    return [3        Limit::perMinute(10)->by('minute:'.$request->user()->id),4        Limit::perDay(1000)->by('day:'.$request->user()->id),5    ];6});\nRateLimiter::for('uploads', function (Request $request) {\n    return [\n        Limit::perMinute(10)->by('minute:'.$request->user()->id),\n        Limit::perDay(1000)->by('day:'.$request->user()->id),\n    ];\n});\n\nResponse-Based Rate Limiting\nIn addition to rate limiting incoming requests, Laravel allows you to rate limit based on the response using the after method. This is useful when you only want to count certain responses toward the rate limit, such as validation errors, 404 responses, or other specific HTTP status codes.\nThe after method accepts a closure that receives the response and should return true if the response should be counted toward the rate limit, or false if it should be ignored. This is particularly useful for preventing enumeration attacks by limiting consecutive 404 responses, or allowing users to retry requests that fail validation without exhausting their rate limit on an endpoint that should only throttle successful operations:\n\n 1use Illuminate\\Cache\\RateLimiting\\Limit; 2use Illuminate\\Http\\Request; 3use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\RateLimiter; 4use Symfony\\Component\\HttpFoundation\\Response; 5  6RateLimiter::for('resource-not-found', function (Request $request) { 7    return Limit::perMinute(10) 8        ->by($request->user()?->id ?: $request->ip()) 9        ->after(function (Response $response) {10            \/\/ Only count 404 responses toward the rate limit to prevent enumeration...11            return $response->status() === 404;12        });13});\nuse Illuminate\\Cache\\RateLimiting\\Limit;\nuse Illuminate\\Http\\Request;\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\RateLimiter;\nuse Symfony\\Component\\HttpFoundation\\Response;\n\nRateLimiter::for('resource-not-found', function (Request $request) {\n    return Limit::perMinute(10)\n        ->by($request->user()?->id ?: $request->ip())\n        ->after(function (Response $response) {\n            \/\/ Only count 404 responses toward the rate limit to prevent enumeration...\n            return $response->status() === 404;\n        });\n});\n\nAttaching Rate Limiters to Routes\nRate limiters may be attached to routes or route groups using the throttle middleware. The throttle middleware accepts the name of the rate limiter you wish to assign to the route:\n\n1Route::middleware(['throttle:uploads'])->group(function () {2    Route::post('\/audio', function () {3        \/\/ ...4    });5 6    Route::post('\/video', function () {7        \/\/ ...8    });9});\nRoute::middleware(['throttle:uploads'])->group(function () {\n    Route::post('\/audio', function () {\n        \/\/ ...\n    });\n\n    Route::post('\/video', function () {\n        \/\/ ...\n    });\n});\n\nThrottling With Redis\nBy default, the throttle middleware is mapped to the Illuminate\\Routing\\Middleware\\ThrottleRequests class. However, if you are using Redis as your application's cache driver, you may wish to instruct Laravel to use Redis to manage rate limiting. To do so, you should use the throttleWithRedis method in your application's bootstrap\/app.php file. This method maps the throttle middleware to the Illuminate\\Routing\\Middleware\\ThrottleRequestsWithRedis middleware class:\n\n1->withMiddleware(function (Middleware $middleware): void {2    $middleware->throttleWithRedis();3    \/\/ ...4})\n->withMiddleware(function (Middleware $middleware): void {\n    $middleware->throttleWithRedis();\n    \/\/ ...\n})\n\nForm Method Spoofing\nHTML forms do not support PUT, PATCH, or DELETE actions. So, when defining PUT, PATCH, or DELETE routes that are called from an HTML form, you will need to add a hidden _method field to the form. The value sent with the _method field will be used as the HTTP request method:\n\n1<form action="\/example" method="POST">2    <input type="hidden" name="_method" value="PUT">3    <input type="hidden" name="_token" value="{{ csrf_token() }}">4<\/form>\n<form action="\/example" method="POST">\n    <input type="hidden" name="_method" value="PUT">\n    <input type="hidden" name="_token" value="{{ csrf_token() }}">\n<\/form>\n\nFor convenience, you may use the @method Blade directive to generate the _method input field:\n\n1<form action="\/example" method="POST">2    @method('PUT')3    @csrf4<\/form>\n<form action="\/example" method="POST">\n    @method('PUT')\n    @csrf\n<\/form>\n\nAccessing the Current Route\nYou may use the current, currentRouteName, and currentRouteAction methods on the Route facade to access information about the route handling the incoming request:\n\n1use Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route;2 3$route = Route::current(); \/\/ Illuminate\\Routing\\Route4$name = Route::currentRouteName(); \/\/ string5$action = Route::currentRouteAction(); \/\/ string\nuse Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Route;\n\n$route = Route::current(); \/\/ Illuminate\\Routing\\Route\n$name = Route::currentRouteName(); \/\/ string\n$action = Route::currentRouteAction(); \/\/ string\n\nYou may refer to the API documentation for both the underlying class of the Route facade and Route instance to review all of the methods that are available on the router and route classes.\nCross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)\nLaravel can automatically respond to CORS OPTIONS HTTP requests with values that you configure. The OPTIONS requests will automatically be handled by the HandleCors middleware that is automatically included in your application's global middleware stack.\nSometimes, you may need to customize the CORS configuration values for your application. You may do so by publishing the cors configuration file using the config:publish Artisan command:\n\n1php artisan config:publish cors\nphp artisan config:publish cors\n\nThis command will place a cors.php configuration file within your application's config directory.\n\n    \n        \n\n\n\n    \n    \nFor more information on CORS and CORS headers, please consult the MDN web documentation on CORS.\n\nRoute Caching\nWhen deploying your application to production, you should take advantage of Laravel's route cache. Using the route cache will drastically decrease the amount of time it takes to register all of your application's routes. To generate a route cache, execute the route:cache Artisan command:\n\n1php artisan route:cache\nphp artisan route:cache\n\nAfter running this command, your cached routes file will be loaded on every request. Remember, if you add any new routes you will need to generate a fresh route cache. Because of this, you should only run the route:cache command during your project's deployment.\nYou may use the route:clear command to clear the route cache:\n\n1php artisan route:clear\nphp artisan route:clear\n\n","index":[{"title":"Prologue","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Release Notes","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/releases","active":false},{"title":"Upgrade Guide","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/upgrade","active":false},{"title":"Contribution Guide","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/contributions","active":false}]},{"title":"Getting Started","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Installation","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/installation","active":false},{"title":"Configuration","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/configuration","active":false},{"title":"Agentic Development","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/ai","active":false},{"title":"Directory Structure","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/structure","active":false},{"title":"Frontend","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/frontend","active":false},{"title":"Starter Kits","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/starter-kits","active":false},{"title":"Deployment","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/deployment","active":false}]},{"title":"Architecture Concepts","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Request Lifecycle","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/lifecycle","active":false},{"title":"Service Container","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/container","active":false},{"title":"Service Providers","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/providers","active":false},{"title":"Facades","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/facades","active":false}]},{"title":"The Basics","active":true,"items":[{"title":"Routing","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/routing","active":true},{"title":"Middleware","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/middleware","active":false},{"title":"CSRF Protection","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/csrf","active":false},{"title":"Controllers","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/controllers","active":false},{"title":"Requests","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/requests","active":false},{"title":"Responses","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/responses","active":false},{"title":"Views","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/views","active":false},{"title":"Blade Templates","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/blade","active":false},{"title":"Asset Bundling","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/vite","active":false},{"title":"URL Generation","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/urls","active":false},{"title":"Session","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/session","active":false},{"title":"Validation","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/validation","active":false},{"title":"Error Handling","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/errors","active":false},{"title":"Logging","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/logging","active":false}]},{"title":"Digging Deeper","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Artisan Console","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/artisan","active":false},{"title":"Broadcasting","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/broadcasting","active":false},{"title":"Cache","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/cache","active":false},{"title":"Collections","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/collections","active":false},{"title":"Concurrency","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/concurrency","active":false},{"title":"Context","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/context","active":false},{"title":"Contracts","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/contracts","active":false},{"title":"Events","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/events","active":false},{"title":"File Storage","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/filesystem","active":false},{"title":"Helpers","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/helpers","active":false},{"title":"HTTP Client","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/http-client","active":false},{"title":"Localization","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/localization","active":false},{"title":"Mail","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/mail","active":false},{"title":"Notifications","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/notifications","active":false},{"title":"Package Development","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/packages","active":false},{"title":"Processes","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/processes","active":false},{"title":"Queues","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/queues","active":false},{"title":"Rate Limiting","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/rate-limiting","active":false},{"title":"Search","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/search","active":false},{"title":"Strings","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/strings","active":false},{"title":"Task Scheduling","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/scheduling","active":false}]},{"title":"Security","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Authentication","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/authentication","active":false},{"title":"Authorization","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/authorization","active":false},{"title":"Email Verification","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/verification","active":false},{"title":"Encryption","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/encryption","active":false},{"title":"Hashing","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/hashing","active":false},{"title":"Password Reset","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/passwords","active":false}]},{"title":"Database","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Getting Started","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/database","active":false},{"title":"Query Builder","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/queries","active":false},{"title":"Pagination","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/pagination","active":false},{"title":"Migrations","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/migrations","active":false},{"title":"Seeding","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/seeding","active":false},{"title":"Redis","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/redis","active":false},{"title":"MongoDB","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/mongodb","active":false}]},{"title":"Eloquent ORM","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Getting Started","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/eloquent","active":false},{"title":"Relationships","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/eloquent-relationships","active":false},{"title":"Collections","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/eloquent-collections","active":false},{"title":"Mutators \/ Casts","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/eloquent-mutators","active":false},{"title":"API Resources","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/eloquent-resources","active":false},{"title":"Serialization","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/eloquent-serialization","active":false},{"title":"Factories","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/eloquent-factories","active":false}]},{"title":"AI","active":false,"items":[{"title":"AI SDK","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/ai-sdk","active":false},{"title":"MCP","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/mcp","active":false},{"title":"Boost","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/boost","active":false}]},{"title":"Testing","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Getting Started","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/testing","active":false},{"title":"HTTP Tests","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/http-tests","active":false},{"title":"Console Tests","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/console-tests","active":false},{"title":"Browser Tests","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/dusk","active":false},{"title":"Database","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/database-testing","active":false},{"title":"Mocking","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/mocking","active":false}]},{"title":"Packages","active":false,"items":[{"title":"Cashier (Stripe)","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/billing","active":false},{"title":"Cashier (Paddle)","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/cashier-paddle","active":false},{"title":"Dusk","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/dusk","active":false},{"title":"Envoy","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/envoy","active":false},{"title":"Fortify","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/fortify","active":false},{"title":"Folio","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/folio","active":false},{"title":"Homestead","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/homestead","active":false},{"title":"Horizon","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/horizon","active":false},{"title":"Mix","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/mix","active":false},{"title":"Octane","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/octane","active":false},{"title":"Passport","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/passport","active":false},{"title":"Pennant","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/pennant","active":false},{"title":"Pint","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/pint","active":false},{"title":"Precognition","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/precognition","active":false},{"title":"Prompts","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/prompts","active":false},{"title":"Pulse","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/pulse","active":false},{"title":"Reverb","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/reverb","active":false},{"title":"Sail","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/sail","active":false},{"title":"Sanctum","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/sanctum","active":false},{"title":"Scout","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/scout","active":false},{"title":"Socialite","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/socialite","active":false},{"title":"Telescope","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/telescope","active":false},{"title":"Valet","href":"\/docs\/13.x\/valet","active":false}]}],"tableOfContents":[{"text":"Basic Routing","href":"#basic-routing","children":[{"text":"The Default Route Files","href":"#the-default-route-files"},{"text":"Redirect Routes","href":"#redirect-routes"},{"text":"View Routes","href":"#view-routes"},{"text":"Listing Your Routes","href":"#listing-your-routes"},{"text":"Routing Customization","href":"#routing-customization"}]},{"text":"Route Parameters","href":"#route-parameters","children":[{"text":"Required Parameters","href":"#required-parameters"},{"text":"Optional Parameters","href":"#parameters-optional-parameters"},{"text":"Regular Expression Constraints","href":"#parameters-regular-expression-constraints"}]},{"text":"Named Routes","href":"#named-routes","children":[]},{"text":"Route Groups","href":"#route-groups","children":[{"text":"Middleware","href":"#route-group-middleware"},{"text":"Controllers","href":"#route-group-controllers"},{"text":"Subdomain Routing","href":"#route-group-subdomain-routing"},{"text":"Route Prefixes","href":"#route-group-prefixes"},{"text":"Route Name Prefixes","href":"#route-group-name-prefixes"}]},{"text":"Route Model Binding","href":"#route-model-binding","children":[{"text":"Implicit Binding","href":"#implicit-binding"},{"text":"Implicit Enum Binding","href":"#implicit-enum-binding"},{"text":"Explicit Binding","href":"#explicit-binding"}]},{"text":"Fallback Routes","href":"#fallback-routes","children":[]},{"text":"Rate Limiting","href":"#rate-limiting","children":[{"text":"Defining Rate Limiters","href":"#defining-rate-limiters"},{"text":"Attaching Rate Limiters to Routes","href":"#attaching-rate-limiters-to-routes"}]},{"text":"Form Method Spoofing","href":"#form-method-spoofing","children":[]},{"text":"Accessing the Current Route","href":"#accessing-the-current-route","children":[]},{"text":"Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)","href":"#cors","children":[]},{"text":"Route Caching","href":"#route-caching","children":[]}],"currentVersion":"13.x","versions":{"master":"Master","13.x":"13.x","12.x":"12.x","11.x":"11.x","10.x":"10.x","9.x":"9.x","8.x":"8.x","7.x":"7.x","6.x":"6.x","5.8":"5.8","5.7":"5.7","5.6":"5.6","5.5":"5.5","5.4":"5.4","5.3":"5.3","5.2":"5.2","5.1":"5.1","5.0":"5.0","4.2":"4.2"},"currentSection":"\/routing","canonical":"docs\/13.x\/routing","page":"routing","isOldVersion":false,"isUpcomingVersion":false,"defaultVersion":"13.x","markdownUrl":"https:\/\/laravel.com\/docs\/13.x\/routing.md"},"url":"\/docs\/13.x\/routing","version":"b26fefb2ecf9394136bcdbf8bc23e27b","sharedProps":["errors","appUrl","events","featuredEvents","navPartners","featuredArticle","alerts","githubStars","footerNavigation","themeMode","turnstileSiteKey","hubspot","mapboxPublicKey"]}Home⌘KVersion MasterVersion 13.xVersion 12.xVersion 11.xVersion 10.xVersion 9.xVersion 8.xVersion 7.xVersion 6.xVersion 5.8Version 5.7Version 5.6Version 5.5Version 5.4Version 5.3Version 5.2Version 5.1Version 5.0Version 4.2vMasterv13.xv12.xv11.xv10.xv9.xv8.xv7.xv6.xv5.8v5.7v5.6v5.5v5.4v5.3v5.2v5.1v5.0v4.2Switch to light modeSkip to contentPrologueRelease NotesUpgrade GuideContribution GuideGetting StartedInstallationConfigurationAgentic DevelopmentDirectory StructureFrontendStarter KitsDeploymentArchitecture ConceptsRequest LifecycleService ContainerService ProvidersFacadesThe BasicsRoutingMiddlewareCSRF ProtectionControllersRequestsResponsesViewsBlade TemplatesAsset BundlingURL GenerationSessionValidationError HandlingLoggingDigging DeeperArtisan ConsoleBroadcastingCacheCollectionsConcurrencyContextContractsEventsFile StorageHelpersHTTP ClientLocalizationMailNotificationsPackage DevelopmentProcessesQueuesRate LimitingSearchStringsTask SchedulingSecurityAuthenticationAuthorizationEmail VerificationEncryptionHashingPassword ResetDatabaseGetting StartedQuery BuilderPaginationMigrationsSeedingRedisMongoDBEloquent ORMGetting StartedRelationshipsCollectionsMutators / CastsAPI ResourcesSerializationFactoriesAIAI SDKMCPBoostTestingGetting StartedHTTP TestsConsole TestsBrowser TestsDatabaseMockingPackagesCashier (Stripe)Cashier (Paddle)DuskEnvoyFortifyFolioHomesteadHorizonMixOctanePassportPennantPintPrecognitionPromptsPulseReverbSailSanctumScoutSocialiteTelescopeValetAPI DocumentationChangelogRouting

Basic Routing

The Default Route Files
Redirect Routes
View Routes
Listing Your Routes
Routing Customization


Route Parameters

Required Parameters
Optional Parameters
Regular Expression Constraints


Named Routes
Route Groups
// ...
```

```php
1use App\Http\Controllers\UserController;2 3Route::get('/user', [UserController::class, 'index']);
use App\Http\Controllers\UserController;

Route::get('/user', [UserController::class, 'index']);
```

```php
1php artisan install:api
php artisan install:api
```

```php
1Route::get('/user', function (Request $request) {2    return $request->user();3})->middleware('auth:sanctum');
Route::get('/user', function (Request $request) {
    return $request->user();
})->middleware('auth:sanctum');
```

```php
1->withRouting(2    api: __DIR__.'/../routes/api.php',3    apiPrefix: 'api/admin',4    // ...5)
->withRouting(
    api: __DIR__.'/../routes/api.php',
    apiPrefix: 'api/admin',
    // ...
)
```

---

*2026-07-04 — Laravel 13.x study notes*